                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVB Securities to Be Acquired in Buyout................................................................................................................. 2
          Banking & Finance: Management of SVB Securities Readies Buyout..................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Health Funds Gain as Startup Investing Slows........................................................................ 4
          Business News: SVB's New Owner Accuses HSBC of Poaching Bankers.............................................................. 6
                                                                                  
          Investing Monthly (A Special Report) ....................................................................................................................... 7
          The Week in Business: A Bank Takeover ................................................................................................................ 9
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score: The Business Week in 7 Stocks ................................................................................ 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVBSecuritiestoBeAcquiredinBuyout                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVB Securities to Be Acquired in Buyout                                 
          By Dave Sebastian                                                       
          373 words                                                               
          20 June 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          SVB Securities, the investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank, will be acquired in a
          management buyout led by Jeff Leerink, the unit's founder and chief executive officer.
          The deal is backed by funds managed by billionaire Seth Klarman's Baupost Group, Silicon Valley Bank's
          former parent said on Sunday, confirming a Wall Street Journal report earlier this month. SVB Financial
          Group, which used to own the technology-focused bank, has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings
          since mid-March.                                                        
          The bidder group will pay $55 million cash for SVB Securities, repay about $26 million in subordinated debt
          and assume other liabilities, according to a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
          The group will also give SVB Financial an equity instrument that could appreciate in value if the securities
          business goes public in the future.                                     
          The transaction, which could receive court approval by the end of this month, will see SVB Securities go back
          to being called Leerink Partners. The Boston-based business was started as Leerink Swann in 1995, and is
          known for its focus on the healthcare sector. Its founder continued to run the business after it was acquired by
          SVB Financial in 2019.                                                  
          Equity-research business MoffettNathanson will remain under SVB Financial and isn't part of the buyout, SVB
          Financial said.                                                         
                                                                                  
          The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month that SVB Securities' management was readying a buyout
          backed by Baupost, one of the world's largest hedge-fund firms. Klarman, Boston-based Baupost's chief
          executive officer, is a longtime value investor.                        
          Baupost, which has around $26 billion in assets under management, has also been a longtime client of the
          investment bank, according to an SVB Securities statement. Baupost agreed to provide the bulk of the equity
          financing in the management buyout, according to terms mapped out in a court filing.
          U.S. regulators seized Silicon Valley Bank, a separate SVB Financial unit, in March after it struggled to meet
          heavy withdrawal requests from depositors who were spooked by its investment losses. The Federal Deposit
          Insurance Corp. shortly after arranged a sale of the failed bank's U.S. branches, accounts and loans to First
          Citizens Bancshares.                                                    
          Document J000000020230620ej6k0000l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:ManagementofSVBSecuritiesReadiesBuyout                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Management of SVB Securities Readies Buyout          
          By Cara Lombardo and Ben Eisen                                          
          305 words                                                               
          2 June 2023                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank is preparing a management buyout that has the
          backing of Seth Klarman's hedge fund, Baupost Group, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Management's bid for SVB Securities was the only one that emerged earlier this week during bankruptcy
          proceedings for the former parent of Silicon Valley Bank, SVB Financial Group, the people said.
          There are no guarantees that the deal will happen or that Baupost will participate, but if so it could come
          together in the coming days.                                            
          Baupost is one of the world's largest hedge-fund firms and Klarman one of the best-known value investors.
          He makes large, long-term investments and frequently holds billions of dollars in cash so that he can move
          quickly when opportunity strikes.                                       
          In 2019, SVB Financial bought healthcare investment bank Leerink Partners. That bank's founder, Jeff
          Leerink, continues to run the combined business, which was rebranded as SVB Securities in 2022. SVB
          Securities rapidly added to its ranks over the past few years by poaching bankers from rivals as part of a
          push to expand and add a focus on tech clients.                         
          Several of those bankers have since left, including a team of 11 technology bankers who joined Moelis in
          April.                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Silicon Valley Bank was a separate unit of SVB Financial Group. It failed in March after rising interest rates
          triggered huge losses on its investments and it received more than $40 billion of deposit-withdrawal requests
          in a single day. Regulators decided the bank couldn't continue to function and stepped in to seize it.
          In late March, First Citizens Bank acquired large pieces of Silicon Valley Bank, including its deposits, loans
          and branches.                                                           
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Justin Baer contributed to this article.                                
          Document J000000020230602ej620000v                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:HealthFundsGainasStartupInvestingSlows                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Health Funds Gain as Startup Investing Slows         
          By Brian Gormley                                                        
          599 words                                                               
          26 May 2023                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Venture capitalists are raising piles of cash to invest in healthcare -- even as less of that cash is actually
          being put to work at startups.                                          
          U.S. healthcare venture investors are standing firm in the belief that innovation in the life sciences, coupled
          with falling valuations, will in time pay off. In the first quarter, these investors secured $6.8 billion, a pace that
          exceeds that of 2022, when $21.8 billion was raised for the entire year, according to Silicon Valley Bank, now
          a division of First Citizens Bank. The tallies include healthcare-only funds and healthcare allocations of
          diversified pools.                                                      
          Last year's was the second-highest annual total for those investors behind the $28.3 billion raised in 2021,
          according to SVB.                                                       
          But even with cash sloshing around in health-focused venture funds, investment in startups is down. Some
          investors are holding out for bargains, especially in mid- to later-stage companies that previously raised
          capital at lofty valuations.                                            
          "There's a lot of dry powder sitting on the sidelines waiting for valuations to normalize," said Keith Figlioli, a
          managing partner of LRVHealth, which recently closed its fifth venture fund.
          Recently, healthcare venture returns have declined as volatility in the stock market has curbed initial public
          offerings. But limited partners in venture funds are focusing less on recent performance and more on the
          promise of advances in biotechnology and digital health that could lead to giant returns over the next decade.
          "LPs understand this is a long-cycle investment thesis and still believe the core drivers are intact," said Frank
          Angella, a managing partner of Grove Street Advisors, which invests in venture funds.
                                                                                  
          Healthcare venture investment jumped in 2020 and 2021 as the pandemic cast a spotlight on life-sciences
          companies while low-interest rates drove investors into equities. A strong IPO market prompted public-market
          investors to join venture rounds of startups just before they went public, inflating venture-investment totals.
          Now, though, large crossover rounds have grown scarce and many mid- to later-stage startups financed
          during the boom face the prospect of raising money at a lower valuation than their last venture financing,
          investors said.                                                         
          "There are a number of companies out there trying to raise capital that are probably going to have to raise
          down rounds or already have," said David Steinberg, a general partner of biotech venture firm Longwood
          Fund, which recently closed its sixth fund.                             
          U.S. and European healthcare startups banked $9.85 billion in venture capital in the first quarter, well behind
          the clip of last year, when these companies collected $65.73 billion for the year. Medical venture investment
          peaked in 2021 at $98.42 billion, according to SVB.                     
          Healthcare venture returns as well have slipped from pandemic-era highs. In the first quarter of 2021, for
          example, healthcare-focused venture funds posted a 22.5% return, according to market tracker PitchBook
          Data. Just a year later, that quarterly return had plummeted to negative 9.5%, improving somewhat in the
          next three quarters.                                                    
          But to abandon healthcare now would be to miss a digital revolution taking shape, some investors say, as
          startups apply machine-learning to ever-larger biological and medical data sets to create insights that will
          lead to new treatments and better patient care.                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "Companies we're funding today are not just a chemist and a biologist, there's a computer scientist in the mix
          and there's a heavy computational component," said Stuart Peterson, managing partner of Artis Ventures, a
          venture firm.                                                           
          Document J000000020230526ej5q0000l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:SVB'sNewOwnerAccusesHSBCofPoachingBankers                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: SVB's New Owner Accuses HSBC of Poaching Bankers         
          By Josh Mitchell                                                        
          397 words                                                               
          24 May 2023                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The plan was allegedly dubbed "Project Colony."                         
          At around 9 p.m. on Easter Sunday, dozens of top bankers from the recently failed Silicon Valley Bank
          pressed send on an email to their new employer, First Citizens BancShares, announcing their resignation,
          according to a new lawsuit.                                             
          Without delay, the bankers were all hired by HSBC Holdings, the lawsuit says.
          First Citizens says the mass resignation was part of a broad plan by HSBC and a former top SVB banker to
          steal a hugely profitable business that First Citizens had acquired through its purchase of SVB.
                                                                                  
          Much of the business came from SVB's life-sciences and technology-banking team, the lawsuit alleges.
          First Citizens said it would buy most of what was left of Silicon Valley Bank in late March. It acquired billions
          in SVB's deposits and loans, and hoped to leverage SVB's established relationships with businesses in
          technology and other areas to expand its footprint.                     
          In a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, First Citizens sued HSBC for more than
          $1 billion, alleging an illegal "scheme to plunder" one of SVB's core businesses that it says rightly belonged to
          First Citizens.                                                         
                                                                                  
          An HSBC spokeswoman declined to comment Tuesday.                        
          The lawsuit says HSBC's plan stemmed from the British banking giant's purchase of the U.K. arm of SVB on
          March 13 for just over $1. SVB had just collapsed, stoking a banking crisis that would roil markets on both
          sides of the Atlantic. Days later, HSBC hired David Sabow, a former senior executive at SVB, the lawsuit
          says. According to the lawsuit, Sabow devised a plan to recruit more than three dozen top bankers from the
          collapsed SVB to HSBC.                                                  
          Sabow told HSBC it could earn well over $1 billion in profits within five years if the plan worked, the lawsuit
          says. Through HSBC, Sabow didn't respond to a request to comment.       
          Two weeks later, on March 27, First Citizens, a big regional lender based in North Carolina, bought large
          pieces of SVB. Then, on April 9, 42 employees resigned from First Citizens within 30 minutes, and were
          immediately hired by HSBC, the lawsuit says. The lawsuit also accuses Sabow and other former SVB
          bankers of stealing proprietary information that belonged to First Citizens.
          Document J000000020230524ej5o0000b                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvestingMonthly(ASpecialReport)                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investing Monthly (A Special Report)                                    
          Venture Capital Faces Many Unknowns After SVB's Fall --- Among the questions: Will funding get a lot more
          difficult for startups? ---- By Lori Ioannou                            
          1,099 words                                                             
          10 April 2023                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The demise of Silicon Valley Bank was a shock for the $32 billion venture-debt industry, a critical source of
          alternative financing for startup companies.                            
          Since its inception, SVB had been a pioneer in the venture-debt field, and a linchpin for venture-backed
          startups looking for capital to expand their businesses. Last year, SVB had $6.7 billion outstanding in venture
          loans, according to PitchBook-NVCA Monitor.                             
          Now, many are wondering what SVB's demise will mean for the venture-debt market. The Federal Deposit
          Insurance Corp., which took control of the lender it now calls Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, sold substantially all
          of its loans, deposits and branches to First Citizens BancShares Inc. in March. The loans were sold at a
          discount. As of April 3, some $90 billion in SVB's securities and other assets remained in receivership.
          Some see the tumult as an opportunity. "First Citizens has bought the greatest footprint in the tech innovation
          hub of America," says David Spreng, chairman and CEO of Runway Growth Capital, a venture-debt lender
          that focuses on late-stage startups. "SVB didn't fail because it had bad loans; it failed because it had bad
          assets."                                                                
          Now market watchers are waiting to see how active First Citizens will be in venture lending in the months
          ahead as it integrates SVB's assets and operations into its own bank. An FDIC spokesman verified Silicon
          Valley Bridge Bank's venture loans were part of the loan portfolio acquired by First Citizens.
          According to Peter Bristow, president of First Citizens Bank, "Silicon Valley Bank will continue to be a leader
          in providing venture debt to technology and life-sciences companies as a division of First Citizens. We are
          enthusiastic about this part of our business." He says the SVB venture-debt team has been onboarded as
          employees of First Citizens Bank.                                       
          Another unknown is how skittish other bank venture lenders will be as they focus on risk management in the
          wake of SVB's failure. "I think you'll see a tightening of funding as some regional banks pull back a bit," says
          Brian Wayne, director of Aegon Asset Management's Impact Venture Credit Program, which provides venture
          debt to climate-tech startups.                                          
          "We are in the early days of the SVB fallout, and where it all ends is not clear," says Troy Zander, partner of
          Barnes & Thornburg's San Diego office who leads its venture-debt practice. "That's why many founders who
          raised venture debt from SVB are now out looking for replacement venture-debt providers that will refinance
          these loans."                                                           
          Some are turning to other regional banks that specialize in providing venture debt -- such as Comerica,
          Western Alliance Bank and East West Bank -- as well as J.P. Morgan's Innovation Economy Debt Solutions
          business. Others are tapping nonbank lenders such as Hercules Capital, Horizon Technology Finance and
          Trinity Capital along with new lenders such as Applied Real Intelligence, or ARI.
          "I am seeing 10 times more demand since SVB's blowup," says Zack Ellison, ARI's managing general partner
          and chief investment officer, who is currently seeking investors for the company's ARI Venture Debt
          Opportunities Fund. Mr. Ellison says he expects the fund will total $125 million when it closes by year's end.
          Unlike traditional bank financing, venture debt is a loan or line of credit with warrants -- rights to buy stock at a
          specific price in the future. It is often backed by a startup's assets. It is typically offered by specialized banks
          or nonbank lenders to help fast-growing venture-capital-backed companies get bridge financing until they are
          ready to raise another round of venture capital, or sell or go public.  
          Venture loans are most often structured as three- to four-year term loans with an interest-only period of six
          months to two years. They typically then amortize over the remainder of the term.
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "Up until now, interest rates on these have been based on the prime rate," currently 8%, says Mr. Ellison --
          plus, he says, a credit spread that typically could be up to 4 percentage points above that from a bank and 6
          to 8 points from a nonbank lender.                                      
          While that has been the rule of thumb, Mr. Spreng says warrant coverage can sometimes be much higher on
          early-stage deals. He also notes that some lenders including Runway Growth often base these loans on the
          Secured Overnight Financing Rate, the cost of borrowing cash overnight using Treasury securities as
          collateral, instead of the prime rate.                                  
          Over the past 15 months, demand for financing in the form of venture debt has boomed as venture capitalists
          have tightened their purse strings. Venture-capital funding in the U.S. fell 29% to $245 billion in 2022 from
          $345 billion in 2021. Startups looking to shore up working capital ahead of a possible recession have found
          venture debt a lifeline.                                                
          The drop in private-company valuations has also been a driver in the surge of demand for venture debt. Kyle
          Stanford, a senior venture-capital analyst at PitchBook, says the median valuations for early-stage startups
          has fallen 17% since 2021, and declined 65% for late-stage, "venture growth" pre-IPO companies.
          The trend has meant that startups must give up more equity in exchange for venture capital, and many
          founders don't want that dilution. That's what prodded Gary Mittman, founder and CEO of KERV Interactive,
          an interactive video company powered by AI, to turn to Trinity Capital for $4.5 million in venture debt last
          October. "Since the SVB collapse, many venture-debt lenders have been aggressively pitching me for
          business every day," Mr. Mittman says.                                  
          As private lenders rush in to fill the void in the market, many worry that venture-debt packages will become
          more expensive.                                                         
          "Private-equity firms usually offer venture loans with higher interest rates and often ask for more equity
          warrant coverage than a bank," says Jay Jung, managing partner of Embarc Advisors, a strategic finance
          advisory for startups and small and medium-size businesses in San Francisco.
                                                                                  
          ARI's Mr. Ellison says of the current situation: "It's like throwing sand in the gears of a machine: Even if the
          wheels keep turning, it will be a harder process for startups to raise money."
          ---                                                                     
          Ms. Ioannou is a writer in New York. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com.
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230410ej4a00001                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheWeekinBusiness:ABankTakeover                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WITH INTEREST                                                           
          Money and Business/Financial Desk; SECTBU                               
          The Week in Business: A Bank Takeover                                   
          By Marie Solis                                                          
          947 words                                                               
          2 April 2023                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          What's Up? (March 26-April 1)                                           
          Silicon Valley Bank Changes Hands                                       
          First Citizens BancShares, a family-run bank in North Carolina, announced last Sunday that it was acquiring
          Silicon Valley Bank, capping off a tumultuous month for the California lender whose collapse touched off a
          wider banking crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized control of SVB and its assets on
          March 10, after a run on deposits left it insolvent, and SVB filed for bankruptcy a week later. First Citizens'
          deal with the F.D.I.C. to take over the bank involved the purchase of about $72 billion in loans at a $16.5
          billion discount. First Citizens also took control of all of the bank's roughly $56 billion in deposits. But an
          additional $90 billion in SVB's securities remain under the purview of the F.D.I.C. The collapse of SVB was
          followed in short succession by two other bank failures. Credit Suisse, which was bought by its rival UBS,
          Switzerland's largest bank, and Signature Bank. New York Community Bancorp later acquired substantially
          all of the remaining deposits at Signature Bank.                        
          And in Other SVB News                                                   
          At a Senate Banking Committee hearing last week on the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank,
          federal regulators blamed the banks' executives for poor management and risk assessment, which, they
          argued, led to the collapses. They also suggested bank managers could face penalties if they did anything
          improper. But the regulators themselves were not off the hook: They were the ones in the hot seat on
          Tuesday, answering questions from lawmakers about why certain red flags went unheeded and how to avoid
          future bank failures. The Federal Reserve, in particular, is under scrutiny for not doing enough to prevent the
          banks' implosions. Michael S. Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision, said he learned about SVB's
          problems only in February. These lines of questioning are expected to continue this week, when the House
          Financial Services Committee holds its own hearing on Wednesday.        
          Not the Usual Treatment                                                 
          Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, did not get the treatment he was used to receiving
          in Washington on Wednesday when he appeared before a committee, led by Senator Bernie Sanders of
          Vermont, scrutinizing him for what lawmakers termed ''illegal union busting.'' In the past, Democrats praised
          Mr. Schultz for his business practices, but last week liberal members of the Senate Committee on Health,
          Education, Labor and Pensions pressed the longtime chief executive with questions about whether he had
          participated in decisions to fire or discipline workers involved in the union drive at Starbucks. Lawmakers said
          they had heard of ''widespread anti-union efforts'' at the company, but Mr. Schultz called those accusations
          ''propaganda'' and instead highlighted Starbucks's pay and benefits for workers.
          What's Next? (April 2-8)                                                
          Taking the Labor Market's Temperature                                   
          Recent job reports took many analysts by surprise, blowing past expectations and breaking a trend line that
          had suggested the jobs market was gradually cooling off. Forecasters were going into Friday's jobs report
          with similar expectations -- the consensus was that employers added 240,000 jobs in March. But it's unclear
          how closely the new data will conform to those predictions. Even amid high-profile layoff announcements at
          companies like Amazon and NPR, jobless claims remain low. And though the banking crisis has fomented
          concerns about the economic outlook -- and darkened the forecast for later this year -- its hasn't yet had an
          effect on jobs figures.                                                 
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The I.R.S.'s Cash Infusion                                              
          The Internal Revenue Service is expected to release its plan this week for how to manage the $80 billion the
          Biden administration has allocated to overhaul the agency, which has struggled in recent years with an
          enormous tax return backlog, staffing shortages, outdated technology and a lack of funding. But shoring up
          the I.R.S. has become a partisan issue, with Republicans fervently opposed to aiding the agency, which they
          argue would give it too much power over taxpayers. Of new concern to conservatives in Congress, as well as
          lobbyists for the tax preparation industry, is a potential plan for the I.R.S. to create its own tax-filing system
          that would allow taxpayers to submit their returns directly to the federal government at no cost.
          Trump's Arraignment                                                     
          Former President Donald J. Trump is likely to be arraigned on Tuesday after a grand jury in Manhattan voted
          last week to indict him for his role in paying hush money to an adult film star during the final weeks of the
          2016 presidential campaign. In the immediate aftermath of the indictment, users on social media channels
          associated with right-wing extremists and conspiracy theorists searched for an explanation for why Mr. Trump
          met this fate. But the responses did not coalesce around any one narrative or call to action: Although some
          urged their fellow Trump supporters to rise to the former president's defense, others suggested it would be
          best to wait until more was known about the indictment and argued an indictment would help him win
          re-election in 2024.                                                    
          What Else?                                                              
          The Federal Reserve's preferred inflation gauge cooled to 5 percent on an annual basis in February. New
          rules released on Friday by the Treasury Department significantly limit the electric vehicles that qualify for
          federal tax credits. Detroit automakers report their March sales figures this week, which will show how the
          Fed's interest rate increases have affected demand for vehicles.        
          This article appeared in print on page BU2.                             
          Document NYTF000020230402ej420004m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore:TheBusinessWeekin7Stocks                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score: The Business Week in 7 Stocks                   
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          708 words                                                               
          1 April 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          FIRST CITIZENS BANCSHARES INC.                                          
          FCNCB +45%                                                              
          Silicon Valley Bank has a new owner. First Citizens Bancshares Inc., one of the nation's largest regional
          banks, is buying large pieces of the lender after its collapse sent tremors through the banking system. The
          Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said First Citizens is acquiring all of Silicon Valley Bank's deposits, loans
          and branches. The sale marks a milestone in regulatory efforts to clean up after two of the largest bank
          failures in history at a time when investors are on edge about the health of the global financial system. First
          Citizens shares surged 45% Monday.                                      
          SALESFORCE INC.                                                         
          CRM +0.6%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Salesforce has shaken off an activist investor. Elliott Management Corp. no longer plans to nominate
          directors to the cloud company's board, the two sides said Monday, avoiding a proxy fight at a coming
          shareholder meeting. Elliott decided to back down after Salesforce's better-than-expected financial results, as
          well as other recent changes made by the company such as cutting costs and boosting share buybacks. The
          activist investor was one of several that had been lobbying for change at Salesforce following a turbulent
          stretch and a slowdown in revenue. Salesforce shares added 0.6% Monday. 
          LYFT INC.                                                               
          LYFT -7.6%                                                              
                                                                                  
          Lyft has a new driver at the wheel. The ride-hailing firm is tapping a board member as its new chief executive,
          as its two co-founders step back from managing the company, the company said Monday. Lyft is grappling
          with competition and a battered stock price as it struggles to keep up with larger rival Uber Technologies Inc.
          New CEO David Risher will take over from Logan Green, who co-founded Lyft with current President John
          Zimmer. The pair will retain their seats on the board but not participate in running the company day-to-day.
          Lyft shares dropped 7.6% Tuesday.                                       
          ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD.                                              
          BABA +14%                                                               
          Alibaba is splitting up. The Chinese e-commerce giant plans to divide itself into six independently run
          companies that could seek separate IPOs, effectively dismantling the empire built by entrepreneur Jack Ma.
          Alibaba's businesses will be split into six major areas: cloud computing, Chinese e-commerce, global
          e-commerce, digital mapping and food delivery, logistics, and media and entertainment. The reorganization
          comes after Chinese authorities signaled in recent months they were winding down a regulatory crackdown
          on the country's tech sector. American depositary shares of Alibaba soared 14% Tuesday.
          WALT DISNEY CO.                                                         
                                                                                  
          DIS +1.6%                                                               
          Layoffs are still sweeping through corporate America. Disney started its first wave of layoffs in its plan to cut
          7,000 jobs, including the elimination of its metaverse division and more than 300 streaming employees in
          Beijing. Electronic Arts Inc. and Roku Inc. also reported job cuts, while Meta Platforms Inc. plans lower bonus
          payouts and more frequent employee performance assessments. Disney shares gained 1.6% Monday.
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE INC.                                           
          WBA +2.7%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Walgreens faces a slow recovery from staff shortages. The second-biggest U.S. drugstore chain said that
          hundreds of its pharmacies continue to operate at reduced hours because of an ongoing pharmacist
          shortage. Walgreens said that 500 stores resumed normal pharmacy operating hours, while 1,900 still have
          shortened schedules. Executives said the chain will have fewer pharmacy hours through the end of August.
          Despite the challenges, Walgreens reported a 3.3% rise in sales in its latest quarter, with same-store sales up
          3.1% from a year earlier at U.S. locations. Walgreens shares gained 2.7% Tuesday.
          BED BATH & BEYOND INC.                                                  
          BBBY -26%                                                               
          Bed Bath & Beyond is warning of bankruptcy -- again. The beleaguered home-goods retailer said it will
          terminate a fundraising deal with Hudson Bay Capital Management and instead try to sell up to $300 million
          of common stock. If its public offering fails to come through, the company said that it expects to file for
          bankruptcy protection, likely wiping out holders of its common stock. The company broke off the equity-raising
          deal after reporting another sharp drop in quarterly sales. Bed Bath & Beyond plunged 26% Thursday to hit
          an all-time low of 59 cents.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230401ej410001b                                      
          