                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Main Street Banks Pay Up To Keep Depositors' Funds --- Zions Bancorp in Salt Lake City says some big
          customers have withdrawn deposits ........................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MainStreetBanksPayUpToKeepDepositors'Funds---ZionsBancorpinSaltLakeCitysayssomebigcustomershavewithdrawndeposits
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Main Street Banks Pay Up To Keep Depositors' Funds --- Zions Bancorp in Salt Lake City says some
          big customers have withdrawn deposits                                   
          By Rachel Louise Ensign and Gina Heeb                                   
          761 words                                                               
          20 April 2023                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The smaller banks that serve a swath of America's consumers and businesses are starting to pay up to keep
          their deposits.                                                         
          Main Street banks such as Citizens Financial Group Inc. and First Horizon Corp. said in recent first-quarter
          earnings reports they are having a tougher time hanging onto customer money in a world where the Federal
          Reserve has aggressively raised interest rates. To keep those depositors around, some lenders are paying
          more on savings accounts and turning to products like certificates of deposit.
          Though profits rose at many banks in the first quarter, the deposit declines signal a fundamental change in
          their business. Deposits were plentiful in the era of superlow rates because customers had little incentive to
          move their money elsewhere. Banks grew to rely on them as a cheap source of funding that they could use to
          make loans or buy bonds and other securities.                           
          At Zions Bancorp, deposits at the end of March were down 3% from the previous quarter and 16% from a
          year ago. Zions is one of the banks whose stock price has been hard hit since the banking crisis that unfolded
          last month.                                                             
          In its earnings release late Wednesday, the Salt Lake City-based bank noted its deposits were still higher
          than prepandemic levels. But many of its larger customers have yanked deposits, with more than two-thirds
          of the declines "related to accounts with balances greater than $10 million."
          The bank said its borrowings rose sharply as it faced the deposit declines on top of a slight uptick in loan
          growth. Its borrowed funds were up by $11.5 billion from the year-ago quarter, primarily driven by secured
          borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Banks.                            
          "The fundamentally solid results that we and many other banks produced in the first quarter were
          overshadowed by concerns about liquidity and capital strength in the wake of two prominent bank failures in
          mid-March," Harris Simmons, chief executive of Zions, said in a statement.
          In recent months, with the Fed continuing to raise rates, consumers and businesses at banks across the
          industry started moving their money from bank deposits to higher-yield offerings like money-market funds and
          Treasurys. Customers who used to be satisfied keeping their money in accounts that paid no interest decided
          they no longer were.                                                    
          The collapse last month of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank accelerated the shift at some firms. Both
          banks were felled by panicky customers pulling out their money after concerns started spreading about the
          banks' health. Customers at those banks and some other smaller firms across the U.S. started moving their
          money to the largest banks, betting they were safer even in crisis.     
          "The turmoil itself is going to be most challenging for the small to midsize banks," U.S. Bancorp Chief
          Financial Officer Terry Dolan said. "They tend to be organizations that are less diverse or concentrated in
          particular areas."                                                      
          Another major regional bank, Citizens, said Wednesday its deposits "were broadly stable" throughout the
          turbulence last month. But total deposits at the bank slipped from the previous quarter, driven by a 10%
          decline in noninterest-bearing accounts.                                
          "There was that kind of jolt to the system that people had to respond to," Bruce Van Saun, chief executive of
          Citizens, said.                                                         
                                                                                  
          Banks had underestimated the extent to which higher interest rates would pressure deposit costs, Mr. Van
          Saun added.                                                             
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The average rate Citizens paid across deposits was 1.74%, up more than half a percentage point from the
          previous quarter.                                                       
          Based in Memphis, Tenn., First Horizon said noninterest-bearing deposits were also down 10% from the prior
          quarter, while interest-bearing deposits were up 1%.                    
          At Mississippi-based Hancock Whitney Corp., deposits rose 2% from the prior quarter, but the bank paid up
          to keep them. The bank paid interest on a bigger portion of its deposits, ponying up a 1.65% rate, compared
          with 0.96% in the prior quarter. The lender said it brought in $568 million in brokered deposits, which are
          typically more expensive, after the recent failures.                    
          Chief Financial Officer Michael Achary said he believes a big portion of the bank's noninterest-bearing
          deposits will stick around because they belong to loyal customers who use their accounts for daily
          transactions. "That's a hard thing to predict, and I don't think anybody has a crystal ball," he said on a call
          with analysts Tuesday.                                                  
          Document J000000020230420ej4k0003c                                      
                                                                                  
          