 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The Company&#8217;s 2022 Form 10-K contains disclosure regarding the risks and uncertainties related to the Company&#8217;s business under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors . There have been no material changes to the Company&#8217;s risk factors as presented in the Company&#8217;s 2022 Form 10-K, except as described below: 

Risks Related to Our Operations 

We may be impacted by the actions, soundness or creditworthiness of other financial institutions, which can cause disruption within the industry and increase expenses. 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks, and investment banks. Defaults or failures of financial services institutions and instability in the financial services industry in general can lead to market-wide liquidity problems, increased credit risk and withdrawals of uninsured deposits. The failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank, and First Republic Bank in the first half of 2023 resulted in significant disruption in the financial services industry and negative media attention, which has also adversely impacted the volatility and market prices of the securities of financial institutions and resulted in outflows of deposits for us and many other financial institutions. These events have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the market price and volatility of our common stock. 

The cost of resolving the recent bank failures is expected to lead to special assessments by the FDIC to replenish the DIF, pursuant to a rule the FDIC proposed on May 11, 2023. Such events may also increase the risk of a recession or lead to regulatory changes and initiatives that could adversely impact the Company. Changes to laws or regulations, or the impositions of additional restrictions through supervisory or enforcement activities, could have a material impact on our business. Regulatory changes could also adversely impact our ability to access funding, increase the cost of funding, limit our access to capital markets, and negatively impact our overall financial condition. 

The proportion of our deposit account balances that exceed FDIC insurance limits may expose us to enhanced liquidity risk. 

A significant factor in the bank failures in the first half of 2023 appears to have been the proportion of the deposits held by each institution that exceeded applicable FDIC insurance limits, and the withdrawal of such deposits over a short period of time. The ease and speed of the electronic withdrawals may accelerate this process. If a significant portion of our deposits were to be withdrawn within a short period of time such that additional sources of funding would be required to meet withdrawal demands, we may be unable to obtain funding on favorable terms, which may have an adverse effect on our net interest margin. Moreover, obtaining adequate funding to meet our deposit obligations may be more challenging during periods of elevated interest rates and financial industry instability. Our ability to attract depositors during a time of actual or perceived distress or instability in the marketplace may be limited. Further, interest rates paid for borrowing generally exceed the interest rates paid on deposits. This spread may be exacerbated by higher prevailing interest rates. In addition, because our AFS debt securities lose value when interest rates rise, our ability to cover liquidity needs from sale or pledging of these securities may be negatively impacted during periods of elevated interest rates. Under these circumstances, we may be required to access additional funding from other sources in order to manage our liquidity risk. 

