 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The Company&#8217;s 2022 Form 10-K contains disclosure regarding the risks and uncertainties related to the Company&#8217;s business under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors . There have been no material changes to the Company&#8217;s risk factors as presented in the Company&#8217;s 2022 Form 10-K, except as described below: 

Risks Related to Our Operations 

We may be impacted by the actions, soundness or creditworthiness of other financial institutions, which can cause disruption within the industry and increase expenses. (1) 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks, and investment banks. Defaults or failures of financial services institutions and instability in the financial services industry in general can lead to market-wide liquidity problems, increased credit risk and withdrawals of uninsured deposits. The failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank in March 2023 and of First Republic Bank in May 2023 have resulted in significant disruption in the financial services industry, adversely impacted the volatility and market prices of the securities of financial institutions and resulted in lower levels of deposits for us and many other financial institutions. These events have adversely impacted, and could continue to, adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the market price and volatility of our common stock. 

The cost of resolving the recent bank failures may lead to further increases in FDIC premiums or additional special assessments. Such events may also increase the risk of a recession or lead to regulatory changes and initiatives that could adversely impact the Company. Changes to laws or regulations, or the impositions of additional restrictions through supervisory or enforcement activities, could have a material impact on our business. Regulatory changes could also adversely impact our ability to access funding, increase the cost of funding, limit our access to capital markets, or negatively impact our overall financial condition. 

The proportion of our deposit account balances that exceed FDIC insurance limits may expose us to enhanced liquidity risk. 

A significant factor in the recent failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank appears to have been the proportion of the deposits held by each institution that exceeded applicable FDIC insurance limits. In response to these failures, many large depositors have withdrawn deposits in excess of FDIC insurance limits in order to diversify their risk. If a significant portion of our deposits were to be withdrawn within a short period of time such that additional sources of funding would be required to meet withdrawal demands, we may be unable to obtain funding at favorable terms, which may have an adverse effect on our net interest margin. Moreover, obtaining adequate funding to meet our deposit obligations may be more challenging during periods of elevated interest rates and financial industry instability, both of which we are currently experiencing. Our ability to attract depositors during a time of actual or perceived distress or instability in the marketplace may be limited. Further, interest rates paid for borrowing generally exceed the interest rates paid on deposits. This spread may be exacerbated by higher prevailing interest rates. In addition, because our AFS debt securities lose value when interest rates rise, after-tax proceeds resulting from the sale of such assets may not be sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Under these circumstances, we may be required to access funding from sources such as the Federal Reserve&#8217;s discount window or additional funding from its recently established Bank Term Funding Program, from which we borrowed $4.50 billion during the first quarter of 2023, in order to manage our liquidity risk. See Note 10 &#8212; Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q for additional information related to the Company&#8217;s borrowings from the BTFP. 

(1) Represents an update to Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Company's 2022 Form 10-K under the heading, "The actions and soundness of other financial institutions could affect us." &#160; 

