Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., maintaining the original formatting:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2021_Q1

          Goldman Vies for JetBlue Cards --- Investment bank looks to win contract away from Barclays, part of
          consumer-finance goal ............................................................................................................................................. 2
          Senior Exits Point to Shift At Goldman..................................................................................................................... 4

          Goldman Executive to Run Walmart Fintech Startup............................................................................................... 7

          EXCHANGE --- Personal Board of Directors: Sarah Friar --- Chief Executive Officer, Nextdoor Inc..................... 11
          Dining Software Firm to List --- Toast taps Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan to underwrite a possible IPO later this year
          13                                                                      

          U.S. News: Ex-Regulator Eyed for SEC Chairman ................................................................................................ 14
          Deal Nears for Stake in Firm With Ties to Cowboys, Yankees ............................................................................. 16

          Goldman Banker Is New Instacart CFO ................................................................................................................. 17


          Goldman Vies for JetBlue Cards --- Investment bank looks to win contract away from Barclays, part of
          consumer-finance goal                                                   
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is talking to JetBlue Airways Corp. about taking over its credit-card program,
          according to people familiar with the matter, the latest effort from the Wall Street firm to push deeper into
          consumer finance.                                                       
          Goldman is competing against Barclays PLC, which is the current issuer of the JetBlue credit cards and is in
          discussions to hold on to the deal, the people said. Discussions are ongoing, and JetBlue may decide to stick
          with Barclays. JetBlue's contract with Barclays doesn't end for another roughly three years, some of the
          people said.                                                            
          Known for most of its history as an adviser to blue-chip companies and elite money managers, Goldman
          entered the credit-card business in 2019 as part of a broader expansion into digital-banking services for the
          masses. Its first credit card was launched in partnership with Apple Inc. Last year, General Motors Co.
          decided to move its credit-card offering from Capital One Financial Corp. to Goldman.
          As of December, outstanding balances on Goldman's credit cards totaled $4.3 billion, more than double their
          level the year before. The bank expects to add about $2 billion in GM credit-card balances when that deal
          closes in September. That is still small compared with the big card issuers. JPMorgan Chase & Co. had $144
          billion in credit-card balances as of the fourth quarter 2020.          
          Airline co-branded cards are among the most competitive in the credit-card industry. While there are
          hundreds of retailers that banks could partner with to offer credit cards, there are a limited number of U.S.
          airlines. The cards have historically appealed to banks because they attracted big-spending frequent
          travelers.                                                              
          But credit-card spending, particularly on airfare and other travel, has been hit hard by the pandemic. Many
          people, worried about taking on new debt in an uncertain job market, switched to debit cards. Card issuers
          are betting that pent-up demand will create a travel boom when the pandemic ends, boosting demand for and
          usage of airline cards.                                                 
          American Express Co. and JPMorgan have long run the credit-card programs for Delta Air Lines Inc. and
          United Airlines Holdings Inc., respectively. Citigroup Inc. and Barclays both issue credit cards for American
          Airlines Group Inc.                                                     
          In the past several years, Goldman has reached out to many U.S. airlines to see if they were interested in
          partnerships, according to people familiar with the matter. One challenge: Many of the major credit-card deals
          have five years or more left to them.                                   
          A JetBlue deal could be risky for Goldman because of the unusually long gap between when the deal would
          be signed and when it would take effect, especially given the uncertainty around what will happen to travel
          demand in the intervening years.                                        
          Barclays began issuing JetBlue credit cards in 2016, after JetBlue parted ways with AmEx.
          Goldman has courted JetBlue for a few years, according to one of the people familiar with the matter. The
          bank recently started offering a loan option to consumers who book vacation packages through JetBlue
          Vacations, allowing them to pay in installments.                        
          Late last year, JetBlue asked Barclays to extend its contract years before it was set to expire, in hopes that it
          would smooth the way to JetBlue getting a loan from the Treasury Department, people familiar with the matter
          said.                                                                   
          Soon after, JetBlue put out a formal request for bids from other card issuers and entered into serious
          conversations with Goldman, the people said. JetBlue is also in discussions with Barclays about extending its
          contract, according to the people.                                      
          A JetBlue spokeswoman said Barclays has "been an instrumental partner to our business and the success of
          our loyalty program." She said JetBlue's request for bids "will help us evaluate the right partner for us in this
          new travel landscape as we emerge from this crisis."                    
          Goldman started in consumer lending by mailing out unsolicited offers for unsecured personal loans, but it
          scaled back those offers during the pandemic. In addition to the new co-branded credit-card deals, Goldman
          spent last year inking deals with Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc. to make loans to merchants that sell
          goods through those companies.                                          

          Senior Exits Point to Shift At Goldman                                  
          An unusually large number of senior executives have left Goldman recently as C.E.O. David Solomon
          remakes the Wall Street firm.                                           
          A little more than two years into David M. Solomon's tenure as chief executive of Goldman Sachs, at least
          nine senior executives have left or intend to leave soon. It's an unusually large number for a firm long defined
          by its tight-knit partnership culture.                                  
          Since the beginning of the year, four key executives have announced plans to leave, according to internal
          emails and employees: Goldman's top lawyer, one of its heads of asset management, one of its few Black
          female partners and the head of its consumer banking business. Other senior executives, including one of the
          heads of investment banking, announced plans to step down late last year. All in all, five members of the
          firm's management committee, its topmost governing body, have left or given notice within the past five
          months -- roughly a sixth of the entire group.                          
          The exodus is partly a reflection of the approach taken by Mr. Solomon, a 59-year-old longtime investment
          banker who became chief executive late in 2018. He has sought to refashion Goldman, which went public
          more than two decades ago, into a more traditional public company, say current and former partners. That
          has produced a more top-down, hierarchical culture in which the institution is bigger than its people and
          Goldman's old-fashioned partnership structure -- which imparts not only added pay and benefits but also a
          sense of family to the firm's top players -- is less relevant, these people say.
          Goldman plans to replace most of the people who are leaving, and expects to do so easily, said company
          officials.                                                              
          ''The firm is well on its way to meeting the goals we set, and investors seem to appreciate the changes, the
          greater transparency, and the clear direction we've put in place,'' said Jake Siewert, a Goldman spokesman,
          in a nod to its stock price, which is trading at about $330, an all-time high. ''It's an important part of Goldman
          tradition for partners to leave for a wide range of new pursuits, and we wish them well.''
          Goldman, Mr. Siewert said, has ''an extremely deep bench.''             
          Mr. Solomon stepped into his job about two and a half years ago when Lloyd C. Blankfein, who saw Goldman
          through the financial crisis, retired. An avuncular, Harvard-educated former gold salesman, Mr. Blankfein was
          known for his sharp intellect and self-deprecating quips. ''How far down into the partnership do I have to go to
          find a partner who will listen to me?'' he used to joke, according to partners. He sometimes likened his role to
          that of the senior partner at a law firm.                               
          Even though Goldman hasn't been a true partnership since 1999, when it went public, previous chief
          executives, including Mr. Blankfein, were deferential to that aspect of the firm's culture. Partners, who were
          named every two years, were feted at a black-tie dinner dance known internally as the ''prom.'' Once part of
          the group, they often had spirited debates about promotions and firm strategy.
          The partnership was once powerful enough that when high-performing employees were wooed by other
          companies, their colleagues and bosses were often able to use their personal connections -- along with
          increased pay and promotional opportunities -- to reel them back.       
          Mr. Solomon took a different approach. He streamlined Goldman's structure, creating a new consumer wealth
          management unit to house its Marcus retail banking division alongside its money management unit for rich
          individuals, while focusing the traditional asset management business on investment funds. He sought to trim
          costs, potentially including payouts to partners, who typically make millions of dollars in yearly pay. And he
          pruned the 550-member partnership to closer to 400. Under Mr. Solomon, the partner prom was downgraded
          to cocktails, with a buffet dinner and no dancing.                      
          Mr. Solomon also has tried to diversify Goldman's ranks to include more women and people of color. He
          named women to the posts of treasurer and head of strategy, and added two Black executives to the
          management committee.                                                   
          He also presided over a banner 2020, in which the firm churned out nearly $1 billion in revenue a week, its
          best results in 11 years, and reported its second-highest profits ever. 

          In a brief note to investors on Tuesday entitled ''GS: Poached Again; Harvard of banks,'' the banking analyst
          Mike Mayo wrote that Goldman remained strong and that Mr. Solomon ''has indicated that the partnership
          ranks were too top heavy, and some churn should be expected.''          
          When the pandemic started, Goldman -- like all other firms -- struggled to balance bringing employees back
          to the office, where they could be more collaborative and better mentored, and letting them work from home
          to avoid getting sick.                                                  
          Mr. Solomon, who worked from the bank's downtown Manhattan headquarters all along, had initially been
          flexible about letting Goldman employees trade and advise clients remotely. Sheila Patel, the 51-year-old
          chairwoman of the asset management division, worked from her vacation home in New Zealand. Ms. Patel
          was among those who eventually left, retiring from the firm in December. Marco Argenti, the co-chief
          information officer, was in his home in Seattle. Thousands of others worked from home, in locations as varied
          as second homes and the master bathroom of their parents' house.        
          But before long, say current and former partners, Mr. Solomon began pressuring some managers --
          especially partners -- to return to the office. Some partners bristled at the appearance of Mr. Solomon
          questioning their productivity because they weren't in the office. Others questioned his mandate that meetings
          of the management committee be held at Goldman headquarters, say current and former partners. Some
          believed that the meeting could just as easily be done from home -- especially because the 32 committee
          members ended up spreading out over multiple conference rooms and conducting their affairs via video feeds
          to obey social-distancing protocols.                                    
          Late in March, Gregg Lemkau, the longtime co-head of investment banking and an executive who was widely
          considered a potential Goldman C.E.O., sent a Twitter post about getting up during the wee hours to work
          remotely from his home in Hawaii, which is six hours behind New York.   
          He soon got a call from Mr. Solomon, who was not pleased with the perception of the message, say three
          people with knowledge of the call. The two executives argued, those people said, over whether Mr. Lemkau
          should return to New York. They settled their differences and Mr. Lemkau stayed put for two months before
          flying back. In mid-November, Mr. Lemkau, then 51, announced plans to retire from Goldman to become chief
          executive of the family investment office of Michael Dell, the billionaire founder of the computer company.
          ''The reaction was overwhelming,'' said Mr. Lemkau in a podcast weeks later. The memories colleagues
          shared, he said, underscored how his treatment of other people had defined him. ''Not the big deals I did, not
          anything formal I did, but the little things that you did that made a difference in their lives,'' he reflected, ''it sort
          of makes you feel like, 'Damn, I'm glad it was worth doing all that stuff.'''
          Mr. Lemkau has told people privately that his departure had nothing to do with his tiff with Mr. Solomon.
          The exodus picked up steam this year. Last month, Michael Daffey, who had led the global markets division,
          retired.                                                                
          Then, this week, Eric S. Lane, co-head of the firm's asset-management business and also viewed as a
          contender for the Goldman C.E.O. role, took a senior role at a large hedge fund. Karen Patton Seymour, the
          firm's general counsel since 2019, also left, and plans to return to her former law firm, according to internal
          emails. All were members of the management committee, and all but Ms. Seymour had long tenures at the
          firm. Around the same time, Omer Ismail, head of Goldman's Marcus consumer business, left to run a new
          financial-technology venture that has been seeded by Walmart, taking a deputy who had overseen the firm's
          Apple credit card partnership along with him.                           
          Stephanie Smith, a consumer wealth management partner and one of just five Black female partners at the
          firm, has also exited to take an executive role at BlackRock, say three people with knowledge of her talks.
          BlackRock, the giant asset manager, had tried and failed to recruit her about five years earlier, two of the
          people said.                                                            
          Ram Sundaram, a senior trading executive known for structuring complex bond deals, left this year, as did
          Jason Mathews, who ran a U.S. stock-product sales desk and was one of roughly half a dozen Black male
          partners.                                                               
          For many, the moment was bittersweet.                                   
          In an email, Mr. Mathews said he was ''extremely proud to be able to call G.S. home for the last 20 years.''
          The firm, he added, ''is still and always will be a place where everyone works their tail off to get better every
          day -- no matter what challenge is in front of them.''                  

          Goldman Executive to Run Walmart Fintech Startup
          Omer Ismail, head of Goldman's Marcus consumer business, left to run a new financial-technology venture
          that has been seeded by Walmart, taking a deputy who had overseen the firm's Apple credit card partnership
          along with him.

          Goldman Banker Is New Instacart CFO
          Goldman Sachs banker Nick Giovanni is leaving the Wall Street firm to become the chief financial officer of
          Instacart, the grocery-delivery company said Wednesday.
          Mr. Giovanni, who has been at Goldman for more than two decades, most recently served as global head of
          the technology, media and telecom investment-banking group. He will join Instacart in April.
          The move comes as Instacart is preparing for a potential initial public offering this year. The San Francisco-
          based company was valued at $39 billion in a March funding round, making it one of the most valuable U.S.
          startups.
          Instacart's current CFO, Sagar Sanghvi, will transition to a new role leading corporate development, the
          company said.
          Mr. Giovanni's departure follows that of several other senior Goldman executives in recent months, as Chief
          Executive David Solomon remakes the Wall Street firm's leadership team.
```