Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to **Citigroup Inc.**, with all titles, headers, footers, and other non-content elements removed:

```
citigroup_inc_2021_Q1

The bank plans to have one day each week when workers can avoid being on-camera for internal calls. ''We
are all feeling the weariness,'' Citi's chief executive said.           
Happy hours and ''Casual Fridays,'' team doughnuts and coffee trips have all fallen by the wayside in the last
year, as one office tradition after another was curtailed by the reality of remote work.
Lawyers rolled into court from bed. Executives used one good shirt. Sweatpants ruled the day.
But Citigroup, one of the world's largest banks, is trying to start a new end-of-week tradition: Zoom-free
Fridays.                                                                

The bank's new chief executive, Jane Fraser, announced the plan for ''Zoom-free Fridays'' in a memo sent to
employees on Monday. Recognizing that workers have spent inordinate amounts of the past 12 months
staring at video calls, Citi is encouraging its employees to take a step back from Zoom and other
videoconferencing platforms for one day a week, she said.               
''The blurring of lines between home and work and the relentlessness of the pandemic workday have taken a
toll on our well-being,'' Ms. Fraser wrote in the memo, which was seen by The New York Times.
''After listening to colleagues around the world, it became apparent we need to combat the 'Zoom fatigue' that
many of us feel,'' she wrote.                                           

The memo said that no one at the company would have to turn their video on for any internal meetings on
Fridays. External meetings would not be affected: ''There still will be client and regulator meetings that need
to happen via Zoom,'' it said.                                          
Citi -- the third largest bank in America and the 13th largest globally by assets, according to S&P Global --
also asked its 210,000 workers around the world to make sure they take their vacation time and designated
Friday, May 28 a companywide holiday for all workers to be off and ''reset.''
The bank outlined other steps to restore some semblance of work-life balance. It recommended employees
stop scheduling calls outside of traditional working hours, and pledged that when employees can return to
offices, a majority of its workers would be given the option to work from home up to two days a week.
''We are all feeling the weariness,'' wrote Ms. Fraser, who took up her role as Citi's chief executive this month
and is the first woman to lead a major American bank. The pressure is high for Citi to turn itself around, after
a banker's mistake sent nearly $1 billion wired to the wrong people and the bank was handed a $400 million
fine by federal regulators last year over long-running problems.        
But complaints of ''Zoom fatigue'' have emerged across industries and classrooms in the past year, as people
confined to working from home faced schedules packed with virtual meetings, and found that their hours of
on-camera work were often followed up by long video catch-ups with friends.
The widespread feeling of burnout prompted research from Stanford University trying to explain why video
calls felt so draining.                                                 

In a peer-reviewed article published in the journal Technology, Mind and Behavior last month, Professor
Jeremy Bailenson, the founding director of the Stanford Virtual Human Interaction Lab, outlined several
reasons video calls can be so much more exhausting than in-person conversations.

He found that the excessive eye contact involved in video calls, the unnatural situation of seeing ourselves
on-screen and having to stay in the same fixed spot all contribute toward ''Zoom fatigue.''
Video calls are also harder mental work for us, Professor Bailenson said in a news release, because we have
to put in more effort to make and interpret nonverbal communications. ''If you want to show someone that you
are agreeing with them, you have to do an exaggerated nod or put your thumbs up,'' he said. ''That adds
cognitive load as you're using mental calories in order to communicate.''
Dr. Aaron Balick, a psychotherapist and the author of ''The Psychodynamics of Social Networking,'' said a key
mistake companies made when setting up work-from-home conditions last year was to treat Zoom calls as
the equivalent of face-to-face meetings. He said that they failed to consider the additional mental burden
placed on workers and the downtime needed to process what was said between calls.
''They require different intellectual muscles,'' Dr. Balick said in an interview on Wednesday, adding that Zoom
calls needed to be treated as a ''functionally different thing.''       
Citi's ''Zoom-free Fridays'' have the right spirit behind them, he said, though he added, ''if you're doing
back-to-back Zooms Monday through Thursday and then have a day off Friday, that's still not quite good
enough.''                                                               

Employees need more opportunities to block out uninterrupted time to work without the distractions of calls
and meetings, he said. Without the structure and routine of office life, many people have also fallen into the
trap of working longer hours because they have no external cue telling them when to switch off, he added.
Research has found that the stresses of the pandemic and increased workloads have meant some
employees could be working as much as two hours a day more than usual.  
For Wall Street, which even before the pandemic had a notorious reputation for extreme hours, Citi's efforts to
introduce a more flexible approach to work will probably not go unnoticed.

Last week, a survey of 13 first-year Goldman Sachs analysts drew attention on social media, with the
analysts claiming they worked an average of around 100 hours a week and felt they were victims of
workplace abuse.                                                        
Goldman responded in a statement that ''a year into Covid, people are understandably quite stretched.'' It
said it was ''listening to their concerns and taking multiple steps to address them.''
Citi's chief said she wanted to cut ''the 'Zoom fatigue' that many of us feel.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENA
BETANCUR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)                          

When Citigroup Inc. last year sent almost $900 million to lenders in error, it not only set off a legal fight over
the money but unwittingly highlighted a separate issue in the back office: the frequently clunky experience of
using business software.                                                
The mistaken payment at Citi occurred as workers tried to send a nearly $8 million interest payment using a
financial software product called Flexcube, which is offered by a subsidiary of Oracle Corp. Citi has blamed
the mistake on human error. An Oracle spokeswoman said financial institutions use Flexcube to safely make
trillions of dollars in transactions every day.                         
In the ensuing litigation as Citi tried to recoup the money, the bank shared images from its software. The
screenshots showed a user interface with dense type, low contrast and small buttons and boxes.
It is the kind of design that would make executives at consumer-facing companies cringe, including banks
offering brightly lit and easy-to-use apps to their checking, savings and credit-card customers, designers and
analysts said. But it hardly stands out in a business environment, they said. While people look for
best-in-class user experiences as consumers, they are often forced to check those kinds of expectations at
the office door.                                                        
That is partly because the people who choose business software for their companies rarely consider user
experience, said Sam Horodezky, founder of Strathearn Design, a user-experience consulting firm. "They will
frequently pick the product with the most features or the lowest cost, without factoring in the end user at all,"
he said.                                                                
It can also be costly to change or update business software, and might require retraining employees, Mr.
Horodezky added.                                                        
The Flexcube screenshot reflects an older, customized version of its business software, the Oracle
spokeswoman said. "The screenshots shown in court do not reflect the current user interface of Oracle's
corporate-lending systems," she said.                                   
There are also key differences between personal payments and corporate lending, the Oracle spokeswoman
said.                                                                   
"These lending systems are built for trained users who have to consider multiple complex scenarios and
fields, and is not just a money transfer from one person to another," she said.

No two commercial loans are structured the same way, as they might be in consumer lending, said Paul
Spiteri, chief executive of the Lending Practice, a commercial lending consulting firm. "It is hard to
encapsulate technology and processes around something that doesn't look the same twice," he said.
The good news for workers squinting at dimly lit designs is that the consumer sector is putting pressure on
businesses to provide better digital experiences for both clients and employees, according to software
executives.                                                             
"They're having an influx of users who are demanding easier, simpler, more modern experiences," said Todd
Olson, chief executive of Pendo.io Inc., a product-engagement software company that offers services such as
user onboarding and training.                                           
However, while changing relatively obvious elements in the user interface can help, that doesn't always
address deeper problems, he said. Companies might need to analyze how long users are spending on
certain forms or where they pause, for example, to understand which changes to make.

Companies are beginning to invest in making products easier to use, but their efforts are still relatively
nascent, said Andrew Hogan, principal analyst at Forrester Research Inc., a research firm.
"They're paying interest on the design debt," Mr. Hogan said of companies that don't make ease of use a
priority. "This is an area that's going to see huge investment over the next few years."
The coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the adoption of digital practices in business software, said Lidiane
Jones, executive vice president and general manager of Salesforce Commerce Cloud, part of business
software provider Salesforce.com Inc. Technologies such as personalization and artificial intelligence,
commonly used in consumer products, are starting to become capabilities that business-software users want,
she said.                                                               
After the overpayment snafu last August, Citi said it is in the process of upgrading its loan-operations
platform. "We have put significant, additional controls in place until the new system is operational," it said
then.                                                                   

On Jane Fraser's desk at Citigroup's downtown Manhattan headquarters sits a map of Puerto Rico made
from trees downed by Hurricane Maria, which devastated the island in 2017. For Ms. Fraser, the incoming
chief executive of Citi, the memento is a reminder of her mission: to restore order in the midst of chaos.
When Maria hit Puerto Rico, downing power lines and flooding the territory, Citi's San Juan branch was
forced to close. As head of the bank's Latin America business, Ms. Fraser oversaw efforts to provide bank
employees with generators, solar cellphone chargers, portable septic systems, water and other basic
necessities at lightning speed, allowing them to reopen the branch a week after the storm.
''We were the only bank that was up and running,'' she said in an interview. That allowed companies like Shell,
Walmart and other big Citi clients to restart operations as well. The map was a thank-you gift from the bank's
Puerto Rico employees.                                                  
''We don't leave a country when it's in really bad shape,'' Ms. Fraser said. In fact, she said, turmoil in a
country makes the bank's purpose there clearer. ''We can really make a difference.''
Ms. Fraser learned this as she steered the bank through economic crises in Venezuela and Argentina and
worked to clean up its Mexican subsidiary, which was reeling from a money-laundering scandal when she
took over the Latin America region in 2015.                             
Her skills, attitude and global perspective will come in handy as she turns her attention to what could be one
of the biggest cleanup jobs of her career: Citigroup itself.            

In March, she will take the chief executive reins from Michael Corbat. It is a major turnaround job. Ever since
the 2008 financial crisis, when Citi required a $45 billion government bailout and had to split itself into
separate operating units to survive, the sprawling institution has been limping along in third place among the
four biggest U.S. banks, underwhelming its investors and irritating regulators, who in October imposed a
wide-ranging directive to get itself in shape. Citi also agreed to pay a $400 million fine.
The bank had longstanding problems, regulators said -- from failing to catch money launderers to ineffective
risk management. Citi's other mistakes included failing to tell minority customers seeking mortgages that they
were eligible for lower interest rates if they had other business with the bank. It spent $24 million in 2019
compensating customers to remedy that.                                  
Regulators also found that the bank had, for at least six years, failed to follow a federal law requiring that
lenders ensure owners of buildings vulnerable to flooding had insurance if the buildings were used as
collateral. Just before regulators acted in October, Citi accidentally wired $900 million to the wrong people --
an embarrassing scandal that landed it in court.                        
The bank, with $2.3 trillion in assets, continues to be profitable. In January, Citi reported a profit of $4.6 billion
on revenue of $16.5 billion. But both its revenue and its earnings were lower than a year earlier, as credit
card users reduced their activity. Its share price has languished, falling roughly 20 percent in the past year,
while a broader index of banking stocks, the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index, has remained flat.
Ms. Fraser, whose appointment to the top job was announced in October, will become the first woman
```