Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., removing all titles, headers, footers, and keywords:

```
Musk and JPMorgan's Dimon Try for Fresh Start After Feud

Elon Musk and Jamie Dimon have been patching things up.                 
The two business titans have been feuding since a 2016 fallout.         
Musk's companies, including Tesla and SpaceX, have spurned JPMorgan Chase bankers, and the nation's
largest bank hasn't wooed his business empire.                          

They have been moving toward a fresh start since a March detente, when Musk attended an inaugural
JPMorgantechnology conference and talked on stage with Dimon before a crowd that included Microsoft
Chief Executive Satya Nadella and Sam Altman, the chief executive of OpenAI. Afterward, the door appeared
open for JPMorgan and Musk's empire to find a way to work together in the future, people familiar with the
relationship said.                                                      
There remains a significant roadblock: JPMorgan and Tesla are still in a legal battle that started three years
ago over $162 million that JPMorgan has said Tesla should pay for a series of trades.
But the progress is notable. Just over a year ago, it seemed unlikely JPMorgan and Musk would ever find a
way to work together.                                                   
"In the case of JPMorgan, Tesla, um, has a very negative relationship with JPMorgan," Musk testified in a
court case in January 2023. "JPMorgan hates Tesla, in a nutshell."      
Musk is the kind of client JPMorgan and Dimon typically covet. One of the world's richest people, Musk is a
potential client for wealth-management advice and runs a collection of companies that could use banking,
fundraising and dealmaking services. He brings challenges -- loans other banks made for his Twitter
acquisition have lost significant value -- but most bankers are eager to stay on his good side for fees from his
transactions and potential initial public offerings, such as his rocket company, SpaceX.
In May, JPMorgan hired Eric Gray, a Los Angeles-based wealth manager to the ultrawealthy. Musk has been
one of his clients, according to people familiar with their relationship.

For his empire, Musk could gain access to the bank with the deepest pockets in the U.S., plus a wider
network of advisers and services.                                       
Those mutual interests are what has made the feud so unusual on Wall Street and why a change of heart
could open the door to lucrative solutions for both sides.              
JPMorgan was never Tesla's most important adviser -- that role has been held by Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley -- but the carmaker did use some banking services.       

The relationship started fraying around 2016. Musk wanted JPMorgan, one of the country's biggest auto
lenders, to underwrite leases for Tesla's electric vehicles.            
Bank executives balked, unsure how to value the life of the car batteries, The Wall Street Journal has
reported.                                                               
Musk was infuriated by the decision and called the bank's then-head of consumer banking, screaming and
threatening to pull Tesla's business, people familiar with the matter said. Musk's message ended with "F---
you," one of the people said.                                           

Dimon was angry. He called Musk and told him that JPMorgan wouldn't be bullied, the people said.
In the ensuing years, Musk has worked closely with many of the bank's competitors, and his empire has
expanded to six companies. Goldman has been paid nearly $90 million in fees from Tesla and SpaceX since
2010, according to Dealogic. JPMorgan worked on the other side of Musk, representing Twitter when Musk
acquired the company personally.                                        
"JPMorgan used to have all of Tesla's commercial banking business," Musk testified last year in an unrelated
lawsuit. "But when I asked Jamie Dimon at one point for support with a Tesla automotive leasing line, he
declined to support Tesla. . .So I withdrew all commercial banking business from JPMorgan, which, to say the
least, made JPMorgan hate Tesla and me very much."                      
The animosity became public in late 2021, when JPMorgan took the unusual step of suing Tesla and Musk
over $162 million. The bank said Tesla owed the money for a trade JPMorgan helped arrange in 2014. Tesla
countersued, saying JPMorgan was mad in part because it didn't get any of Musk's business.
"If JPM doesn't withdraw their lawsuit, I will give them a one-star review on Yelp," Musk told the Journal at the
time. The lawsuits are ongoing, and it is unclear if an improving Dimon-Musk relationship would change that.

There had been signs of a thaw in the past year.                        
In November, Dimon was asked his thoughts about Musk at the New York Times's DealBook conference.
"He's obviously a brilliant human being and making unbelievable contributions to mankind. But he, you know,
comes with pluses and minuses," Dimon responded.                        
In January, Musk complimented Dimon for making positive comments about some of Donald Trump's
positions. "Jamie Dimon says it well," Musk tweeted.                    

In March, JPMorgan held a technology summit at a resort in Big Sky, Mont. JPMorgan and other banks
commonly host conferences and group gatherings, but this was the bank's first version of a superelite
tech-focused gathering. As a big draw, they landed an unlikely speaker: Musk.
For more than an hour, Dimon and Musk spoke about an array of topics, from Israel to artificial intelligence
and U.S. politics. The two men seemed to have a good rapport on stage, with Musk often being deferential to
Dimon's views, according to people familiar with the event.             
Musk also had his young son, X, with him at the event, one of the people said. The event was organized by
JPMorgan's head of technology investment banking, Madhu Namburi, and had celebrities in attendance
including Tom Brady, Serena Williams, Katy Perry and John Legend.       
Musk also visited Dimon's suite at the resort for what was meant to be a short conversation. It lasted for more
than an hour.                                                           

Following the event, Dimon decided the bank could try to resume doing business with Musk, the people said.

Former Customers Of First Republic Pan Chase Service

First Republic Bank had a knack for making customers feel special. Its new owner isn't getting such rave
reviews.                                                                
Over Memorial Day weekend, all First Republic customers were moved over into JPMorgan Chase accounts,
a transfer of some 800,000 accounts.                                    
On social media and in interviews, dozens of former First Republic customers are complaining about their first
experiences with JPMorgan Chase. Customers weren't able to make payments with their debit and credit
cards after the migration. Others reported multihour waits for customer-support agents, many of whom
weren't able to help them solve their problems.                         
Across Silicon Valley, where First Republic was legendary for its concierge services, personal bankers,
umbrellas and cheap mortgages, people like tech executive Pieter Nel were shocked to realize that they are
now run-of-the-mill Chase customers.                                    
"We were all used to legendary service and dedicated bankers," said Nel, who used First Republic for his
personal banking needs. "Folks like me generally fly business class, stay in four- or five-star hotels and are
used to a level of service in every other aspect of our lives -- except not with banking, now that First Republic
is gone."                                                               
Any transfer of hundreds of thousands of bank accounts is likely to be fraught with bumps and technical
mishaps. Bank customers often take to social media to complain about the slightest bugs, making limited
issues appear widespread. And every day, banking customers experience frustration with passwords,
security and technology that amounts to user error.                     
A JPMorgan spokesperson said that the bank successfully executed the migration and that most customers
didn't have any problems accessing their bank accounts after Memorial Day.
"By Tuesday morning -- the first business day -- all of our systems were fully operational," the spokesperson
said. "In fact, it was our smoothest major migration ever."             

In early 2023, First Republic collapsed in a bank run when customers yanked billions of dollars in deposits,
part of a broader panic in regional banks. Federal regulators seized the bank and JPMorgan won an auction
to acquire it. The deal was premised on the idea that JPMorgan would be able to tap in to a network of
affluent Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and offer them wealth-management and commercial-banking services,
part of a push to target wealthy customers.                             
JPMorgan executives were eager to learn from new employees what made First Republic tick. A risk to the
deal was customers wouldn't hang around if Chase got it wrong.          
But some deep-pocketed and longtime First Republic customers said they aren't impressed with how Chase
has handled the migration. They said that the five-star approach at First Republic feels painfully absent, as
evidenced by long waits for help over the phone and technical glitches that support agents can't easily solve
-- let alone the missing umbrellas and cookies.                         
Roelof Botha, an executive at venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital, railed against the handoff on Tuesday
evening.                                                                
"Despite months of planning, JPMorgan is failing miserably at the simple task of transferring former First
Republic Bank accounts," he wrote in a post on X. "That includes the embarrassment of having your card
declined for transactions, despite assurances that everything would work smoothly."

Silicon Valley bigwigs aren't the only ones having problems.            
David Howey, owner of a self-storage company in Corte Madera, Calif., said he hasn't been able to access
around $50,000 he kept in a small- business account at First Republic. He said that he called Chase, but that
customer service representatives couldn't locate his account.           
"As most banks are crap, I made sure that I kept some money in other accounts, so I'll be OK," he said.
Daniel Morgan, managing principal of a real-estate company in Southern California, said that he is planning
to move his accounts to Citizens Private Bank. He said he spent over six hours each day on Memorial Day
weekend trying to access his accounts and set up autopay on some construction loans.

It took him more than four hours to reach a customer-service representative on the phone. When he got
someone, the representative told him he had called the wrong part of the bank. He had to wait an additional
two hours to reach the commercial-loan servicing department.            
Weeks earlier, a private banker at Citizens reached out to Morgan and said that his bank could offer his
company nearly all of the same services he got at Chase but with a personal touch.
"A lot of us feel a level of gratitude for what First Republic did for us, they took a lot of risks on us as
entrepreneurs," Morgan said.                                            

Not all former First Republic customers are preparing to cut ties with the U.S.'s biggest bank. Don Tepman, a
New York-based entrepreneur in the real-estate industry, wasn't able to access several business accounts
this week. But he acknowledged it was because he had procrastinated on signing up for a new login.
Plus, he feels better than customers did last year when they worried about the collapse of First Republic.
"People are sad to see the First Republic brand go away," he said. "The migration has been a bit
inconvenient for now, but I am not actually worried that our money is not going to be there."

EXCHANGE --- Keywords: This AI Expert Advises the White House, Google, JPMorgan and Corporate America --- Wharton's Ethan Mollick has become the go-to authority on the new technology

Philadelphia -- Within the first few hours after ChatGPT was released in November 2022, University of
Pennsylvania business school professor Ethan Mollick began furiously texting with a colleague about it. He
had been obsessed with the technology before, but that night, it became clear it would change everything.
A lifelong eager and early adopter, Mollick immersed himself in the technology. On social media, he shared
discoveries made while experimenting with ChatGPT, including findings from his M.B.A. students at Wharton,
who use it in his classes. His embrace of large-language models has been so early, and so deep, that he has
become a go-to AI expert for policymakers and corporate leaders alike.  
Mollick doesn't charge for what amounts to behind-the-scenes consulting work for companies, but he is on
Zoom or a plane two to four times a week, meeting with their leaders. He has talked to groups of workers and
executives at Google, Meta Platforms, OpenAI and Anthropic. He's also spoken to leaders at big banks like
JPMorgan, a slew of private-equity firms, and the White House.          
"There is not a single large-scale general purpose technology that does not have upsides and downsides,
and part of my message has been that we have agency right now, to call certain things out as being bad,"
says Mollick, perched on the edge of his seat, his gaze unwavering. "And we need to be doing that."
Mollick is a motormouthed, appropriately disheveled academic. His preparation for the photographer meeting
us was an $18 haircut at Supercuts. He grew up in Milwaukee and is decidedly not cut from the cloth of
Silicon Valley, insisting that he has little in common with "people who take cold plunges and want to live
forever."                                                               
To listen to him speak is like zooming in on a never-ending fractal -- his digressions have digressions,
everything is three layers deeper than expected, the parts echo the whole and yet, one must agree, are
critical to
```