morgan_stanley_2020_Q1

Morgan Stanley 's takeover of E*Trade Financial Corp . for $13 billion shows how drastically the brokerage
industry's business model has changed.                                  
Firms no longer want to offer investment products from all sources. Instead, they want to milk their customers'
cash and manage all of the assets themselves. Investors need to understand the rules of the new game.

Morgan Stanley , E*Trade and Schwab all own banks to which they route much of their customers' cash.
E*Trade pays its customers 0.01% to 0.25% on their uninvested cash; Morgan Stanley , 0.03% to 0.2%;
Schwab, 0.06% to 0.3%.                                                  
Brokerages have been pocketing 2% and up on that money (and you can do almost as well, if you pull the
cash from your brokerage account and park it in a certificate of deposit or savings account at the right online
bank).                                                                  

There is a lot to like about Morgan Stanley 's most ambitious foray beyond Wall Street, but there isn't yet a lot
to bank on.                                                             
Morgan Stanley paid a hefty price for growth and stability. By acquiring E*Trade Financial for $13 billion in
stock -- about $3 billion above where the discount broker closed on Wednesday -- Morgan Stanley will likely
dilute its tangible book value by roughly 10%.                          
The question is whether the firm can earn it back. From an overall strategic standpoint, the deal is fairly
straightforward: Morgan Stanley for years has been moving more heavily into wealth management, and the
notable piece it was missing was a truly mass-market retail program. E*Trade , known for its online-trading
platform, brings that. It has over five million individual-investor accounts and a brand that isn't out of place in a
roster of Super Bowl commercials.                                       
Like other wealth-management businesses, its revenue isn't nearly as volatile as investment banking and
trading, and it can grow steadily in a wider array of market conditions. That latter feature is especially
important when Morgan Stanley is being put through the annual Federal Reserve stress tests.
Still, given the premium paid and the dilution, the deal merits further scrutiny. E*Trade may no longer
generate as much in juicy trading commissions in the era of zero pricing, but it still brings loads of customer
cash: $39 billion of deposits in its own bank and $18 billion swept off-balance-sheet. By using those
off-balance-sheet deposits to replace wholesale funding at Morgan Stanley , this can help reduce funding
costs by $150 million by year two.                                      
Unfortunately, the bulk of E*Trade 's deposits aren't so readily available to be redeployed. For one thing,
Morgan Stanley says it has only so much business that can be deposit-funded, though it is rapidly expanding
its lending book. Also, E*Trade 's own core business needs to fund margin loans, an intimate part of why
people trade with it. So further funding-cost arbitrage gains will take time.
Overall, considering both the funding gains and an additional $400 million in expense savings by year three,
Morgan Stanley forecasts an improvement to its return on tangible common equity of 1 percentage point or
more. That additional earnings power will most likely cover the dilutive outcome of the stock deal.
Whether there is significantly more upside to the stock is something investors will have to figure out on their
own. A few possibilities stand out: The biggest is that E*Trade brings a workplace stock-plan business that
will complement Morgan Stanley 's Shareworks, which it built up by acquiring Solium last year. Morgan
Stanley has said it could add another million active clients through this channel. Now that number gets even
bigger.                                                                 
E*Trade also is building its independent adviser custody business, a big growth area for its online-brokerage
rivals. Morgan Stanley 's own adviser-driven business has tools to accelerate that effort. E*Trade and Morgan
Stanley can also now jointly build out a digital retail-banking offering to compete with the likes of Goldman
Sachs Group 's Marcus and fintech upstarts such as Betterment.          
There is one additional possibility: If the deal succeeds in greatly expanding the firm's steady fee-generation
capabilities across its wealth business, book value might just not matter as much any more to investors,
shifting the valuation conversation to a forward price/earnings ratio. On that basis, Morgan Stanley sits at
about 10 times, well short of Charles Schwab 's more than 18 times.     
An outcome like that is hardly assured. But with this deal at least it is in the realm of the possible.