goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2020_Q1

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive David Solomon got a 19% raise in 2019, a message likely to
resonate poorly among traders and bankers who saw their own bonuses cut and who are facing a long period
of economic uncertainty.                                                
Mr. Solomon earned $24.7 million in 2019, the bank said Friday, including a $7.7 million cash bonus and
almost $15 million in stock. That is up from $20.7 million the year before, most of which he spent as
CEO-in-waiting, and makes him Goldman's best-paid chief since Lloyd Blankfein took home $41 million in
2008.                                                                   
His top lieutenants also received pay bumps.                            
John Waldron, the banks' president and chief operating officer, was paid $22 million and finance chief
Stephen Scherr received $20 million.                                    
At Goldman, as at other big banks, most of their compensation is in the form of shares whose value is tied to
how the bank performs over the next few years.                          

The pay packages are likely to rile employees who saw their bonus checks shrink in 2019 as Goldman spent
heavily to build new businesses like consumer banking and upgrade its technology.
Revenue was flat and profits fell to a four-year low, in part because the bank socked away an extra $1.1
billion in legal reserves as it nears a settlement with U.S. regulators over its involvement in a Malaysian
corruption scandal.                                                     
JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave CEO James Dimon, the highest-paid bank chief, a 1.6% raise to $31.5 million.
Goldman's close rival, Morgan Stanley, cut the pay of CEO James Gorman 7% despite record annual
revenue.                                                                

U.S. banks are preparing for a worsening coronavirus outbreak by laying plans to move staffers to back-office
sites, limiting contact with clients who have been abroad and curbing employee travel.
Morgan Stanley, whose New York City stock-trading floor is the country's busiest, is preparing a backup site
in suburban Westchester County. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has nixed all nonessential international trips.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is canceling some conferences and evaluating powering up a parallel trading floor
in Greenwich, Conn.                                                     
Not since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks have Wall Street banks faced a logistical challenge like the one
potentially posed by a coronavirus outbreak in the U.S. Sustained quarantines and widespread business
closures would hit credit-card and corporate-lending businesses. Further interest-rate cuts, which the Federal
Reserve may use to shore up the economy, would crimp profits.           

Goldman's private bankers are canceling meetings with clients who have been to virus hot spots, according to
clients. Registered attendees of several upcoming Goldman conferences received emails asking them to stay
home if they recently visited virus-affected regions.                   
A sign at the front desk of the bank's downtown Manhattan headquarters asks visitors who have recently
returned from mainland China -- or been in contact with someone who has -- to reschedule.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s "straders," the hybrid trader-coders whose star has been on the rise inside the
Wall Street firm, are losing their ringleader.                          
Adam Korn, who represented a new kind of Wall Street trader -- one reared on computer code, not instinct --
is leaving the firm, people familiar with the matter said. His departure follows that of Martin Chavez, a
technologist and trading executive who left at the end of last year. More resignations are expected across the
firm in the coming weeks, as 2019 bonuses are paid out.                 
An 18-year Goldman veteran, Mr. Korn most recently supervised 5,000 engineers working to electronify the
trading floor and build new software for clients. The most ambitious, called Marquee, is laying digital pipelines
to replace a trading flow that still relies on phone calls and paper tickets.
Goldman has long prided itself on its engineering. Its house-built trading and risk-management software,
known as SecDB, led a digital revolution on Wall Street in the 1990s, and today about one-quarter of its
employees are coders.                                                   
More recently, Chief Executive David Solomon has hired from Silicon Valley and promoted investment
bankers into senior tech roles.                                         
Last fall he hired a pair of outsiders, Amazon.com Inc. veteran Marco Argenti and former Yahoo executive
Atte Lahtiranta, to help lead Goldman's technology efforts.             

He spent his early years churning out code in the corner of the firm's stock-trading floor and later became
Goldman's first strader, a hybrid role that combined risk-taking trader and tech whiz.
He helped lead the development of Marquee, which allows clients to trade, manage risk and access
Goldman's data and research without picking up the phone.               

Mr. Korn will remain an adviser to Marquee and work with Goldman executives evaluating and investing in
financial-technology companies, people familiar with the matter said.   

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive David Solomon said the deal signing has helped contribute "to a
supportive market-making backdrop relative to a year ago."