                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Digest ................................................................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheDigest                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          The Digest                                                              
          By Lananh Nguyen, The Associated Press and Erin Woo                     
          512 words                                                               
          24 December 2021                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          LEGAL                                                                   
          Capital One Settles Suit Over Data Hack in 2019                         
          Capital One has agreed to pay $190 million to settle a class-action lawsuit filed by customers of the bank
          after a hacker stole the personal data of more than a 100 million people in 2019.
                                                                                  
          The settlement would cover 98 million customers who were affected by the breach, which was one of the
          largest data thefts from a bank. Capital One and its cloud services provider, Amazon Web Services, denied
          liability but said they would settle ''in the interest of avoiding the time, expense and uncertainty of continued
          litigation,'' according to a filing this week in federal court in the Eastern District of Virginia.
          Last year, the bank agreed to pay $80 million to settle regulators' claims that it lacked proper cybersecurity
          procedures as it began to use cloud storage tech.                       
          The hacker, Paige Thompson, left an online trail for investigators to follow as she boasted about the breach,
          according to court documents in Seattle at the time. LANANH NGUYEN      
          INFRASTRUCTURE                                                          
                                                                                  
          American Ports to Receive $241 Million in Grants                        
          Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, right, is awarding more than $241 million in grants to bolster
          American ports, part of the Biden administration's near-term plan to address America's clogged supply chain
          with infrastructure improvements to speed the flow of goods.            
                                                                                  
          The transportation money is being made available immediately to 25 projects in 19 states. Next year, the
          amount of money for port improvements will nearly double to $450 million in grants annually for five years
          under President Biden's new infrastructure law.                         
          ''These investments in our nation's ports will help support American jobs, efficient and resilient operations and
          faster delivery of goods to the American people,'' Mr. Buttigieg said on Thursday.
          The grant money includes $52.3 million to help increase rail capacity at the port in Long Beach, Calif., with a
          new locomotive facility, 10,000-foot support track and extensions of five existing tracks to speed up freight
          movement. ASSOCIATED PRESS                                              
          COURTROOM                                                               
                                                                                  
          Jurors End Third Day of Holmes Deliberations                            
          Jurors ended a third day of deliberations on Thursday without a verdict in the fraud trial of Elizabeth Holmes,
          the founder of the failed blood testing start-up Theranos.              
                                                                                  
          Ms. Holmes, 37, faces two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and nine counts of wire fraud for
          allegedly lying about Theranos's tech to land money and fame. If convicted, she could serve up to 20 years in
          prison.                                                                 
          On Thursday, a jury of eight men and four women asked to listen to audio recordings of a call Ms. Holmes
          had had with investors. In that call, Ms. Holmes said that she had built Theranos's business on ''partnerships
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          with the pharmaceutical companies and our contracts with the military.'' Yet pharmaceutical companies
          recommended against using Theranos's technology and the military never used its devices on the battlefield.
          Deliberations will resume on Monday morning. ERIN WOO                   
                                                                                  
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN FORSYTH/GETTY IMAGES)                                
          Document NYTF000020211224ehco00051                                      
          