                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investors Look Past China for Asia IPOs ................................................................................................................. 2
          Banker Mints Money in the Fintech Boom --- Steve McLaughlin was financier to industry before it was cool; today,
          he rules..................................................................................................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Bullish Options Activity Centers on Tech........................................................................................ 6
          Rich Millennials Skip the Adviser ............................................................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
          Business News: Evercore Names Weinberg Sole CEO......................................................................................... 10
          EXCHANGE --- Walmart's New Venture Is a Fintech Startup................................................................................ 12
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvestorsLookPastChinaforAsiaIPOs                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investors Look Past China for Asia IPOs                                 
          By Jing Yang and Dave Sebastian                                         
          787 words                                                               
          31 December 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          For investors looking to bet on new share offerings in Asia, the center of gravity is shifting away from China.
          In a year during which Beijing's regulatory assaults on its companies riled the market and upended a
          yearslong record of great returns from Chinese new-economy stocks, India, South Korea and Southeast Asia
          have become alternative sources of alluring, big-ticket initial public offerings.
          "One significant trend this year was investors getting more interested in markets beyond China. These
          markets are busier than they have been historically," said William Smiley, co-head of equity capital markets in
          Asia ex-Japan at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.                               
          Chinese, South Korean and Indian companies generated the most number of large listings in the Asia-Pacific
          region this year, according to Dealogic data. The figures exclude listings in Japan, often viewed by investors
          as a distinct market, and mainland China's onshore A-share market, where new share sales aren't easily
          accessible by foreign investors.                                        
          While China still led the pack with 15 IPOs of $500 million or more, the performance of these stocks has been
          underwhelming, dropping more than 35% on average as of Dec. 28, according to Dealogic data. Short-video
          streaming platform Kuaishou Technology, which raised $6.2 billion in February in the Hong Kong stock
          exchange in the region's biggest IPO this year, was recently down about 40% from its IPO price.
          In contrast, South Korean and Indian IPOs have seen handsome returns on average, at 42% and 23%,
          respectively, according to Dealogic data. Those figures are despite a few high-profile misfires, such as the
          listing of One97 Communications Ltd., the parent company of Indian fintech giant Paytm.
          Among the region's top 10 best-performing big IPOs, five are from South Korea and three are from India.
          Vaccine developer SK Bioscience Co. and fintech player Kakaopay Corp., which are both from South Korea,
          and Indian delivery platform Zomato Ltd. are among the top gainers.     
          The trend is set to continue, as more unicorns -- private companies valued at more than $1 billion -- in these
          markets become ready to go public, bankers and investors say. Some banks are adapting in response.
                                                                                  
          "While we continue to be very long China, we have adjusted resources to capture opportunities in other
          markets in the region, which could continue to be bright spots for us next year," said Selina Cheung, co-head
          of equity capital markets, Asia, at UBS Group AG.                       
          "What will be different for at least the first half of next year is some investors will pay increasing attention to
          other parts of Asia," she said.                                         
          India will also see a large pipeline of new issues by unicorns, according to Mr. Smiley at Goldman.
                                                                                  
          Nasdaq Inc., which rode a boom of Chinese IPOs for the past decade, now expects a jump in Southeast
          Asian companies making a debut on the exchange next year, according to Asia-Pacific Chairman Robert
          McCooey.                                                                
          "It is an amazingly large total addressable market," he said, referring to the customer base that these
          businesses can tap in Southeast Asia. "Companies have been being built there for years."
          That could, over time, help offset the effects of the de-listings of American depositary receipts of Chinese
          stocks and the drying up of new U.S. listings by Chinese companies, Mr. McCooey said.
                                                                                  
          The clock has recently started ticking on rules that will lead U.S.-listed Chinese companies to be kicked off
          American exchanges if they fail to turn over their audit working papers for U.S. inspection for three years in a
          row. Both countries have also imposed more scrutiny on U.S. IPOs by Chinese companies this year.
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Didi Global Inc., the largest Chinese IPO in the U.S. this year, was punished for front-running Beijing's
          directives and listing in New York.                                     
          The ride-hailing giant has started working on a plan to list its shares in Hong Kong and delist its ADRs in the
          U.S. Its shares slid to new lows this week, and are more than 60% below their IPO price.
          For some investors, Chinese IPOs were already a hard sell even without the regulatory uncertainty. A
          slowdown in China's economic growth and tough competition have made them pass over large tech IPOs.
                                                                                  
          Investors and bankers still hope new listings of Chinese companies will resume in the new year in Hong
          Kong, after the regulatory storm blows over.                            
          "Some investors are taking a short pause to see how regulations evolve," said Ms. Cheung, who is also the
          regional head of private financing markets for UBS. "But they can't completely ignore China."
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020211231ehcv0003l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BankerMintsMoneyintheFintechBoom---SteveMcLaughlinwasfinanciertoindustrybeforeitwascool;today,herules
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Banker Mints Money in the Fintech Boom --- Steve McLaughlin was financier to industry before it was
          cool; today, he rules                                                   
          By Peter Rudegeair and Liz Hoffman                                      
          1,441 words                                                             
          6 December 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Silicon Valley has minted plenty of billionaire entrepreneurs. Here's one who has never written a line of code.
          In 2002 Steve McLaughlin left his job at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to start an investment bank from his San
          Francisco apartment. His specialty was financial-technology startups, then a backwater. Today the fintech
          sector, where coders seek to reinvent the humdrum world of banking as something slicker and even fun, is
          booming, and the 52-year-old Mr. McLaughlin is its unlikely mogul.      
          Compensation of deal makers is as hazy as it is large -- millions here, millions there. But Mr. McLaughlin's
          peers and competitors agree that, as best as anyone can reckon, he is comfortably the highest-paid
          investment banker in America.                                           
          His firm, Financial Technology Partners LP, is on track for some $600 million in revenue this year, according
          to people familiar with the matter. Valuations of similar listed firms would peg its value at $2 billion or more.
          Mr. McLaughlin owns it all, having doled out none of the firm's equity to its 225 or so employees.
          Its playbook combines the advice-giving of traditional investment banks and the motivated profit-seeking of
          private equity, with fees that often ratchet up as a percentage of the sale prices it fetches for clients. And Mr.
          McLaughlin has also invested personally in companies he advises, with stakes in just two of them,
          AvidXchange Holdings Inc. and Marqeta Inc., valued at more than a combined $350 million, according to
          securities filings and people familiar with the matter.                 
          His success has brought the usual trappings of Wall Street -- he owns a Gulfstream G650 jet that ferries him
          from his home in Miami to clients on both coasts -- and some offbeat ones, such as booking Snoop Dogg and
          Eddie Vedder to perform at firm parties in Las Vegas. It has also raised eyebrows across the industry, where
          his outsize fees engender envy and his marriage of personal investments and corporate advice has stoked
          concern about conflicts of interest. Mr. McLaughlin said that personally investing in his clients aligns his
          incentives with theirs.                                                 
          Not content to stay in the advisory business, Mr. McLaughlin raised $500 million for his own blank-check
          company earlier this year, with plans to buy a fintech company. He recently hired a pair of stock analysts
          from Goldman and AllianceBernstein to produce original research.        
          "Historically, bankers are not entrepreneurial," said Nigel Morris, co-founder of Capital One Financial Corp.
          and now a venture capitalist who sits on the board of AvidXchange, in which Mr. McLaughlin has a roughly
          5% stake. "His scrappiness and tenacity is something to behold."        
          FT Partners' fees are brazen even for Wall Street in their size and structure. In 2019, the firm earned a
          roughly $250 million fee on the sale of a client, people familiar with the matter said. That is larger than the
          biggest advisory fee on record, according to Dealogic.                  
          Its invoice for advising CardConnect on its $750 million sale to First Data Corp. in 2017 struck First Data
          executives as so egregious that they asked CardConnect to get it reduced, according to a securities filing.
          Mr. McLaughlin often secures guarantees that clients will hire his firm for any deal they might do in the future
          -- in at least two cases covering half a century, people familiar with the matter said. One such arrangement
          has sparked a messy feud. FT Partners advised Circle Internet Financial Ltd. on its pending sale to a
          blank-check company, a deal that would take the cryptocurrency startup public. FT Partners says the
          engagement letter the parties signed entitles it to about 9% of the transaction value, according to a regulatory
          filing by Circle. Circle disputes the fee, which would amount to more than $400 million. Both sides declined to
          comment.                                                                
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Mr. McLaughlin said his firm is justly compensated for its ability to dig into complicated, money-burning
          startups and sell investors on their potential. "We are Christie's, and other banks are eBay," Mr. McLaughlin
          said.                                                                   
          FT Partners gets monster valuations for its clients. Revolut, a European banking startup, was valued at $5.5
          billion in a 2020 fundraising round organized by JPMorgan Chase & Co. A year later, FT Partners helped
          raise another round of funding that valued Revolut at $33 billion.      
          Mr. McLaughlin acknowledges there is some serendipity at work. He hustled for scraps in the fallow early
          2000s, after the dot-com bust. Now fintech is on fire. A record $95 billion in startup fundraising this year
          through September flowed into the sector, according to research firm CB Insights. Some of the year's biggest
          mergers, such as Square Inc.'s planned $29 billion takeover of Afterpay Ltd., and initial public offerings,
          including Robinhood Markets Inc.'s debut, were in fintech.              
          "It's like what they say about good hockey players -- they don't skate where the puck is, but where it's going,"
          said Mark Loehr, a repeat fintech founder who met Mr. McLaughlin in the late 1990s. "Steve was there long
          before it was fashionable."                                             
          FT Partners helped raise $25 million this year for Mr. Loehr's latest venture, and Mr. McLaughlin invested
          personally. Mr. Loehr said he didn't see a conflict: "He's buying what he's selling."
          Mr. McLaughlin grew up in suburban Philadelphia, manning the popcorn machine at the local movie theater
          for $3.35 an hour and commuting to Villanova University. After getting an M.B.A. from Wharton, he landed a
          plum assignment on Goldman's financial-institutions group. He focused on small technology companies that
          were digitizing securities trading and capital markets, an area so unloved he had it to himself. "The
          [financial-institutions] bankers didn't like it because it was small," he said in an interview. "The tech bankers
          didn't like it because the deals were weird."                           
          FT Partners launched in 2002 from Mr. McLaughlin's Pacific Heights apartment with the help of unpaid interns
          recruited from the University of California, Berkeley. Buying enough card tables and printers at a local Staples
          Inc. store resulted in a free coffee machine, said Tim Wolfe, an early hire.
          An early deal that put the firm on the map was for Lynk Systems Inc., a credit-card processor. According to
          Mr. McLaughlin, the company had previously hired Merrill Lynch to find a buyer and fetched an offer of
          around $150 million. He promised to beat it. In return, Lynk offered him 5% of any deal price over $300
          million. Mr. McLaughlin all but moved into a hotel near Lynk's headquarters in Atlanta. In 2004, the company
          was sold to Royal Bank of Scotland for $525 million.                    
          That became Mr. McLaughlin's blueprint: Find companies that are opaquely valued or misunderstood.
          Negotiate unusual fee structures. And only represent sellers, never investors or potential acquirers. It is a
          lesson Mr. McLaughlin said he learned from his mom, a Realtor. "Always get the listing," he said.
          Clients admire Mr. McLaughlin's hustle and chutzpah.                    
                                                                                  
          After the Lynk Systems sale, FT Partners commissioned and framed a cartoon commemorating the deal with
          plans to present it at a celebratory dinner in New York. Mr. McLaughlin thought it wasn't big enough. As the
          sun set, he hit the streets of Manhattan, offered the proprietor of a printing shop $1,000 to stay open and
          showed up with a poster-size version.                                   
          Some of FT Partners' biggest wins took more than a decade. When AvidXchange approached Mr.
          McLaughlin in 2009 for help raising $5 million, he said it wasn't worth the time. He changed his mind when the
          company agreed to sign an engagement letter that guaranteed FT Partners a role on any deal the company
          did for the next 50 years.                                              
          AvidXchange went from a few million dollars in annual revenue in 2009 to $186 million in 2020. An October
          IPO valued the commercial-payments company at about $5 billion. On top of the stake Mr. McLaughlin owns
          in the company, FT Partners collected a roughly 6% fee on the $1 billion it helped AvidXchange raise over
          nearly a dozen years.                                                   
          Mike Praeger, AvidXchange's chief executive, said Mr. McLaughlin did plenty of work for the company outside
          of fundraisings, including late-night phone calls and weekend flights to North Carolina to map out strategy. He
          also said Mr. McLaughlin talked him out of selling the company at prices well below its current market value.
          "Worth every penny," Mr. Praeger said.                                  
          Document J000000020211206ehc60001i                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---BullishOptionsActivityCentersonTech                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Bullish Options Activity Centers on Tech                   
          By Gunjan Banerji                                                       
          583 words                                                               
          13 November 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Stock-options activity is hitting a fever pitch, with many traders rushing to bullish bets to profit from a
          continued advance in everything from technology heavyweights to small companies.
          Bullish call-options volumes earlier this month hit the highest level since January, when activity touched a
          record, Cboe Global Markets data show. These contracts give traders the right, but not the obligation, to buy
          shares of companies at specific prices, by a stated date.               
          Many traders have turned to options to bet on tech stocks. Around half of all options activity in October was
          tied to shares of Tesla Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. alone, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Much of the
          bullish call-options activity has been concentrated in stocks within the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 index,
          according to Morgan Stanley.                                            
          Many investors have also turned to the options market to profit from the continued rally in stocks including
          Nvidia Corp., Qualcomm Inc. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. All three of those stocks are up more than
          18% this month, compared with the S&P 500's roughly 1.7% advance. They notched gains this past week
          and defied the Nasdaq Composite's 0.7% loss.                            
          Options can magnify bullish or bearish bets by allowing investors to put down a relatively small sum of cash
          for an outsize return if their bets prove to be correct. The contracts have become a popular way for investors
          to ride the nearly relentless momentum in the stock market higher and higher, at times piling into the same
          popular trades.                                                         
          Some traders and strategists have said that the heavy trading activity can exacerbate stock moves, leading to
          bigger rallies while potentially making market swoons sharper when they do appear.
          The frenzied options activity in recent weeks shows how many investors are positioning for stocks to keep
          rising even after the S&P 500 hit more than 60 fresh highs this year and gained 25%.
          "I definitely expect them to go up," said Sharita Glass, a 51-year-old individual trader in Jacksonville, Fla., on
          stocks.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Ms. Glass started trading last year, and since then stocks have steadily risen, making call options tied to tech
          stocks such as Apple Inc. and Amazon one of her favored strategies. When stocks are falling, she typically
          shies away from trading.                                                
          "During this period of time of me learning about the stock market, it was heavily in the green most days," Ms.
          Glass said. She said she recently sold out of her Apple and Amazon call options to pour money into the Shiba
          Inu coin cryptocurrency.                                                
          Options trading has soared this year and, by one measure, hit a fresh high in October. More than $890 billion
          of single-stock options changed hands on Oct. 29, the highest level ever, according to Goldman data. And
          activity in the options market has continued to eclipse stock trading, based on the notional value of options
          changing hands.                                                         
          Tesla's recent lurch higher coincided with a burst of activity in the options market. At times, almost one out of
          every two dollars spent in the listed U.S. options market went toward Tesla bets.
          "This can drive more pronounced trends and momentum than you would otherwise see," said Greg Boutle,
          head of U.S. equity and derivative strategy at BNP Paribas. But he said, "There is a risk that if people step
          back from that for whatever reason, it could exacerbate a reversal."    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020211113ehbd0001z                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          RichMillennialsSkiptheAdviser                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Rich Millennials Skip the Adviser                                       
          By Rachel Louise Ensign and Peter Rudegeair                             
          964 words                                                               
          9 November 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Michael Martocci, a 26-year-old startup founder, ignores the golf invitations and other solicitations from the
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. financial adviser trying to land him as a client.
          Eighteen holes isn't particularly appealing to the Miami-based Mr. Martocci, and neither is paying for financial
          advice. Instead, he oversees his hundreds of thousands of dollars in investments himself. He funnels 90% of
          his money into cryptocurrency. To check his stocks, he pulls up Robinhood Markets Inc. on his phone.
          "It's easy to manage $500,000, $1 million yourself," said Mr. Martocci, who spends less than an hour a week
          monitoring investments.                                                 
          More rich young investors are opting to go without a traditional financial adviser. Instead, they are betting they
          can get good-enough investment options from do-it-yourself digital platforms that are cheap and easy to use.
          Many want to invest in riskier assets, like cryptocurrencies and tech startups, that mainstream advisers often
          don't offer.                                                            
          About 70% of households with a net worth of $500,000 or more headed by a person under 45 had an
          investing style that was either strongly or mostly self-directed in 2019, up from 57% in 2010, according to an
          analysis of Federal Reserve data by research firm Aite-Novarica Group. Nearly half of those households
          aimed to take an above-average level of risk in exchange for an above-average rate of return, up from 35% in
          2010, the analysis found.                                               
          The wealth-management businesses at top firms like Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.'s Merrill
          Lynch continue to mint profits with moneyed older clients. But competition from digital upstarts is growing,
          and traditional firms know they need to attract the next generation of lucrative customers.
          Advisers say they do far more than just put a client's money into stocks and bonds. They can help clients map
          out financial goals and prevent them from making rash decisions. They can also handle complex portfolio
          rebalancing and tax planning for busy professionals.                    
          Merrill said it has diversified its adviser force and improved its technology. People under 45 made up 20% of
          new clients this year, up from 10% five years earlier, the firm said. Morgan Stanley has spent billions of
          dollars in recent years buying firms that it hopes will help it attract younger clients, like online broker E*Trade
          and employee-stock-plan administrator Solium.                           
          Wealth-management firms also offer clients special access to some alternative investments, such as funds
          tied to private equity. But many either restrict or ban crypto investments and provide limited access to shares
          in pre-IPO companies.                                                   
          Big firms are wagering that reluctant young people may hire an adviser when they are older. "When you start
          to go from the wealth-accumulation phase to the retirement phase, the world gets much more complicated,"
          said Jed Finn, chief operating officer of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management and head of corporate and
          institutional solutions. "People don't think they need advice until they need advice."
          Studies suggest that advisers can get caught up in chasing hot stocks, much like individual traders. During
          the 2008-09 financial crisis, financial planners often sold their clients' stocks as the market fell.
                                                                                  
          Still, when markets are rising as they are now -- U.S. stock indexes have hit records this year -- it is easy for
          professional and amateur investors alike to look smart.                 
          When Travis Chambers, 33, landed a $9 million windfall from selling part of his advertising agency this year,
          he interviewed four financial advisers over video. He thought they put too little effort into explaining how their
          investments were unique and worth the fees. And none of them brought up crypto or real estate, the
          investments that most interested him.                                   
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Mr. Chambers, who lives in Boise, Idaho, decided to strike out on his own. He put $1 million into a hedge fund
          run by his business partner's neighbor. He earmarked an additional $1.5 million to build offbeat Airbnb rentals
          in low-income areas. One project involves building futuristic huts in a dry lake bed in Utah.
          U.S. Bancorp recently offered to give Mr. Chambers a personal line of credit at a 2.75% interest rate if he
          puts $1 million into a brokerage account.                               
          Mr. Chambers is considering the offer but would keep managing most of his money on his own. He expects
          he would use the credit line to buy cars and a plane, which he thinks will increase in value.
                                                                                  
          When Cabell Hickman turned 18, her stepfather gave her money to buy stocks. He later invited her to invest
          alongside him in private companies.                                     
          A few years ago, she put $100,000 into a blockchain fund run by a friend she met in college. Now 26, she is
          managing her own $6 million portfolio.                                  
          Her stepfather died last year, leaving Ms. Hickman a complex estate, and for the first time she is considering
          hiring a professional financial adviser.                                
                                                                                  
          Ms. Hickman, a higher-education consultant, said she has found some good if homogeneous options: "I'm
          talking to, frankly, a bunch of old men."                               
          Mr. Martocci, who has been dodging the Goldman adviser, has most of his wealth tied up in his company,
          SwagUp. It creates and distributes branded items like tote bags and coffee mugs.
          He said that at this point in life, he prefers risky investments that could potentially double or triple his money
          over those promising "market type returns."                             
                                                                                  
          "Most young people don't really care about the downside," Mr. Martocci said. "They care about the upside
          and it being this fun thing."                                           
          He plans to use a financial adviser, he said, if he gets a windfall from selling the company.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020211109ehb90001z                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:EvercoreNamesWeinbergSoleCEO                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Evercore Names Weinberg Sole CEO                         
          By Liz Hoffman and Cara Lombardo                                        
          323 words                                                               
          27 October 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B7                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Evercore Inc. is naming John Weinberg as its sole chief executive, five years after recruiting the former
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker -- and scion of a Wall Street dynasty -- to the investment bank.
          Ralph Schlosstein, who has held the job since 2009 and shared it for the past year with Mr. Weinberg, will
          step down in February. The handoff is the last step in a yearslong leadership transition in which the firm's
          founder, Roger Altman, a fixture on Wall Street and Washington for four decades, gradually stepped back.
          Mr. Schlosstein said in a joint interview that he identified Mr. Weinberg as his ideal successor more than six
          years ago while wooing the banker from Goldman. Mr. Schlosstein offered him the co-CEO job when he
          joined in 2016, but Mr. Weinberg demurred. "He said, 'Let's see how it works,'" Mr. Schlosstein said. Now, he
          said, "John is more than ready."                                        
          Mr. Altman brought in Mr. Schlosstein, now 70 years old, in 2009 as CEO and last year promoted Mr.
          Weinberg to share the role with the understanding that the job would eventually be his alone.
          Mr. Altman, who started Evercore in 1995 after leaving the Treasury Department, remains Evercore's senior
          chairman. "Nobody looks at my business card," Mr. Altman said in the interview.
          Now 75, Mr. Altman continues to advise clients and worked on deals including Qualcomm Inc.'s $4.5 billion
          deal for auto-technology company Veoneer Inc. this month. Mr. Schlosstein said that Mr. Altman stepped out
          of Evercore's board meeting Tuesday, as the transition was being formally approved, to take a client call.
                                                                                  
          Mr. Weinberg, 64, is Wall Street royalty. His grandfather and father ran Goldman Sachs for the better part of
          six decades. His cousin, Peter Weinberg, is a former senior executive at Goldman and now runs investment
          bank Perella Weinberg Partners.                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020211027ehar0001x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---Walmart'sNewVentureIsaFintechStartup                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Walmart's New Venture Is a Fintech Startup                 
          By Sarah Nassauer and Peter Rudegeair                                   
          609 words                                                               
          16 October 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Walmart Inc. is building a new weapon in its war with Amazon.com Inc.: a fintech startup.
          The retail giant is helping launch a new company, helmed by two former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
          executives, that aims to provide financial services for its millions of customers and workers. The firm is a joint
          venture with Ribbit Capital, known for investing in Robinhood Markets Inc. and other digital financial
          businesses.                                                             
          Options under consideration include building a user base around mobile payments, as well as potentially
          buying a startup that offers consumer bank accounts through a mobile app, known as a neobank, according
          to people familiar with the situation.                                  
          The venture doesn't plan to seek a banking license, according to the people.
          Walmart is the majority owner of the business, which has yet to be named publicly. The venture has hundreds
          of millions of dollars in commitments from its new backers, the people said, and it is likely to acquire other
          companies to jump-start the business, not build the bulk of the technology in-house.
                                                                                  
          Executives at the new company, including Omer Ismail, former head of Goldman's consumer banking unit
          called Marcus, and David Stark, a top executive at Marcus, officially started in August and plans are still in
          flux, the people said. The startup recently hired Chris Faught, a former Apple Inc. and Affirm Holdings Inc.
          executive, to help craft its strategy, the people said.                 
          Mr. Ismail and Mr. Stark are rerunning some of the same plays at the new venture as they did at Goldman.
          Acquisitions of companies including budgeting app Clarity Money helped Marcus add engineers and speed
          up its entry into new products and services. At the Walmart-Ribbit venture, the two executives have held deal
          talks with dozens of startups, the people said.                         
          For decades Walmart has tried various ways to grow its financial services business, but it remains a small
          piece of the company's $559 billion in annual revenue. In recent years, fintech businesses have proliferated,
          leaving Walmart in a crowded, competitive field.                        
          Companies like Chime Financial Inc., a neobank that doesn't charge account fees, and Square Inc.'s Cash
          App, a digital money-transfer service, have built big followings among the low-income shoppers that make up
          Walmart's core customer base.                                           
          The new venture is also part of Walmart's current strategy to create new sources of profitable revenue
          beyond supercenters, mirroring Amazon's model of making money selling cloud computing services and
          advertising.                                                            
          Meyer Malka, the managing partner of Ribbit Capital who goes by "Micky," wooed the Goldman executives
          and brought the idea of a joint venture to Walmart's leaders, the people said. Mr. Malka has long been
          interested in how to build financial products that appeal to the masses.
          Ribbit Capital was an early investor in startups like Robinhood and Credit Karma Inc. that attracted tens of
          millions of users by using technology to expand access to borrowing, banking and investing.
                                                                                  
          Walmart launched its own mobile payment service inside its shopping app in 2015, but Walmart Pay hasn't
          gained widespread use among Walmart shoppers, a disappointment to some top Walmart executives and
          board members, say people familiar with the situation. Walmart Pay can't be used outside of Walmart's stores
          and the retailer never built a stand-alone app for it.                  
          In choosing not to pursue a banking license, the new venture will be subject to less direct oversight from
          regulators, but will also be unable to offer bank accounts or issue debit or credit cards on its own.
          Page 12 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020211016ehag0002p                                      
          