                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lending Opportunities Open for Banks --- Scrutiny of overdraft fees offers a chance for institutions to come up
          with new ways to provide... ...................................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LendingOpportunitiesOpenforBanks---Scrutinyofoverdraftfeesoffersachanceforinstitutionstocomeupwithnewwaystoprovide...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Lending Opportunities Open for Banks --- Scrutiny of overdraft fees offers a chance for institutions to
          come up with new ways to provide credit and serve customers             
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          637 words                                                               
          10 December 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          The doors might be closing on certain banking fees. But windows for lending are opening.
          The U.S.'s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau last week released research that the bureau's head said
          showed how "many banks have become hooked on overdraft fees" and promised "action to restore
          meaningful competition to this market." That follows lawmaker complaints about fees that banks collected
          during the pandemic.                                                    
          It isn't yet clear what may result from this attention on bank charges for customers who spend more than is in
          their account. But investors should take a few things into consideration when considering how it might have
          an impact on bank stocks.                                               
          When put in the context of big banks' overall revenue, overdraft fees are often a relatively small component.
          Among a group of bigger banks tracked by analysts at Jefferies, the median contribution was just 1.4% in the
          third quarter of this year. The contribution ranged from Regions Financial at 4.6% to zero at a handful of
          banks, according to Jefferies. News of a bank doing away with such fees doesn't typically merit much stock
          reaction. A day after Capital One Financial last week said it was ditching overdraft and nonsufficient-fund
          fees, the stock rallied along with the sector.                          
          Regions has outperformed S&P 500 banks overall so far this year amid growth across its businesses. The
          Birmingham, Ala.-based bank has been guiding for service charges overall to decline, expecting them to be
          10% to 15% below 2019 levels for the foreseeable future. The bank has attributed this to a number of
          measures, such as adding more balance alerts and moving to process account transactions in real time, as
          well as relatively high customer balances. It also recently launched a checking account that doesn't incur
          overdraft or nonsufficient-fund fees.                                   
          Banks in general are also widening what lending to retail customers entails -- and some of that could
          substitute for overdraft, which a Congressional Research Service note last year described as "a form of credit
          in some circumstances." These include buy now-pay later, which can sometimes retroactively be applied to
          purchases, as well as ways of getting early access to paychecks. These moves could help banks keep pace
          with online "neobank" competitors, many of whom tout accounts without penalties.
          There are also what are known as small-dollar loans. These are intended to be short-term credits, often for
          less than $1,000. In the past, banks have been reluctant to offer them, often citing fixed underwriting costs
          that make it difficult to economically extend this credit without terms that attracted regulatory scrutiny. Then
          regulators last year encouraged such lending under responsible principles as a way to help consumers during
          the pandemic.                                                           
          Banks are starting to inch into this realm, and more may be coming. Traditional banks' superlow cost of funds
          can give them an edge in trying to make this lending model work, notes fintech consultant Jason Mikula.
          They also already have access to customer history and, if they are a customer's direct-deposit bank, they can
          see when money is coming in.                                            
          Technology plays a role, too. Upstart Holdings, which uses artificial-intelligence software to help banks make
          loans, said last month it was working to enable small loans for banks, with annual percentage rates under
          36%. The firm hopes to start supporting these loans next year.          
          A responsible shift to more forms of credit could improve banks' consumer-loan growth, which has been weak
          outside of auto lending. Investors should be thinking about which banks are best positioned to serve
          customers in new ways.                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020211210ehca0000f                                      
          