Items 2. and 3. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The following is management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) for the third quarter of 2023. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Investors also should read the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Certain terms used in this report are defined in the Glossary included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General The Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “its,” or similar terms mean the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Overview of Financial Results Net Income per diluted common share was $1.49 in the current quarter and $1.80 in the third quarter of 2022. Net Income decreased $67.0 million to $327.8 million in the current quarter from $394.8 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 11.6% in the current quarter and 14.9% in the prioryear quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 0.93% in the current quarter as compared to 1.07% in the prior-year quarter. The impacts of a tight labor market are reflected in our Compensation expense. Inflationary pressures were also reflected in higher Equipment and Software expense. Revenue decreased $28.3 million, or 2%, to $1.73 billion in the current quarter from $1.75 billion in the prior-year quarter. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $33.2 million, or 3%, from $1.08 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.11 billion in the current quarter, primarily due to lagged favorable markets and favorable currency translation, partially offset by lower transaction volumes. Other Noninterest Income decreased $4.7 million, or 3%, from $163.1 million in the prioryear quarter to $158.4 million in the current quarter, primarily reflecting lower Foreign Exchange Trading Income, partially offset by higher Other Operating Income. Net Interest Income decreased $56.8 million, or 11%, to $456.2 million in the current quarter as compared to $513.0 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower average earning assets. There was a $14.0 million Provision for Credit Losses in the current quarter, as compared to a $0.5 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year quarter. The Provision for Credit Losses in the current quarter was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by a small number of large new loans and renewals and credit quality deterioration of certain commercial real estate (CRE) and commercial and institutional (C&I) loans, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook. Noninterest Expense increased $48.4 million, or 4%, from $1.23 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.28 billion in the current quarter, primarily attributable to higher Equipment and Software and Other Operating Expense. The Provision for Income Taxes in the current quarter totaled $106.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%. The Provision for Income Taxes in the prioryear quarter totaled $129.7 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.7%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to a lower state tax provision following the resolution of certain state matters. FDIC Special Assessment In May 2023, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) issued a proposed rule that would impose a special assessment to recover the loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund arising from the protection of uninsured depositors of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank associated with their closures, and the systemic risk determination announced by the FDIC on March 12, 2023. While the timing and amount of any expense recognition are unknown until the proposed rule is finalized, if the FDIC final rule is issued as proposed, the estimated impact of the special assessment to Northern Trust, recognized in Other Operating Expense, would be approximately $80 million. 3 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. Northern Trust voluntarily waived $2.2 million of money market fund fees for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and $2.6 million of money market fund fees for the three months ended September 30, 2022. Asset Servicing Custody and Fund Administration fees, the largest component of Asset Servicing fees, are driven primarily by values of client assets under custody/administration (AUC/A), transaction volumes and the number of accounts. The asset values used to calculate these fees vary depending on the individual fee arrangements negotiated with each client. Custody fees related to asset values are client-specific and are priced based on month-end market values, quarter-end market values, or the average of month-end market values for the quarter. The fund administration fees that are asset-value-related are priced using month-end, quarter-end, or average daily balances. Investment Management fees are based generally on market values of client assets under management throughout the period. Typically, the asset values used to calculate fee revenue are based on a one-month or one-quarter lag. Securities Lending revenue is affected by market values; the demand for securities to be lent, which drives volumes; and the interest rate spread earned on the investment of cash deposited by investment firms as collateral for securities they have borrowed. The Other fee category in Asset Servicing includes such products as investment risk and analytical services, benefit payments, and other services. Revenue from these products is based generally on the volume of services provided or a fixed fee. Custody and Fund Administration fees increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to new business, favorable currency translation, and favorable markets, partially offset by lower transaction volumes. Wealth Management Wealth Management fee income is calculated primarily based on market values and is impacted by both one-month and one-quarter lagged asset values. Fee income in the regions (Central, East and West) increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lagged favorable markets, partially offset by product-related asset outflows. Global Family Office fee income increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to asset inflows. Net Interest Income Net Interest Income is defined as the total of Interest Income and amortized fees on earning assets, less Interest Expense on deposits and borrowed funds, adjusted for the impact of interest-related hedging activity. Earning assets—including Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell, Interest-Bearing Due From and Deposits with Banks, Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits, Securities, Loans, and Other Interest-Earning Assets—are financed by a large base of interest-bearing funds that include client deposits, short-term borrowings, Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt. Short-term borrowings include Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. Earning assets are also funded by noninterest-related funds, which include demand deposits and stockholders’ equity. Net Interest Income is subject to variations in the level and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing funds and their relative sensitivity to interest rates. In addition, the levels of nonaccruing assets and client compensating deposit balances used to pay for services impact Net Interest Income. Net interest margin is the difference between what we earn on our assets and what we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net Interest Income by average interest-earning assets. Net Interest Income stated on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that facilitates the analysis of asset yields. Management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest margins for comparative purposes. When adjusted to an FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable, and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. A reconciliation of Net Interest Income on a GAAP basis to Net Interest Income on an FTE basis is provided in “Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this MD&A. Net Interest Income, stated on a FTE basis, decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower average earning assets. Average earning assets decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower client deposits, partially offset by increased borrowing activity. The net interest margin on an FTE basis decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to an unfavorable funding mix shift, partially offset by higher average interest rates. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits averaged $28.0 billion and decreased $2.5 billion, or 8%, from $30.5 billion in the prior-year quarter. Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks averaged $4.3 billion and increased $0.3 billion, or 8%, from $4.0 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average Securities were $50.4 billion and decreased $3.2 billion, or 6%, from $53.6 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average Other Interest-Earning Assets include certain community development investments, collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, money market investments, and Federal Reserve stock of $904.6 million, $539.2 million, $385.7 million, $91.9 million, and $70.0 million, respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Average taxable Securities were $47.4 billion in the current quarter and $50.9 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average nontaxable Securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $3.0 billion in the current quarter and $2.7 billion in the prior-year quarter. Loans and Leases averaged $42.2 billion and increased $0.7 billion, or 2%, from $41.5 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher levels of commercial real estate, private client, and commercial and institutional loans, partially offset by lower levels of non-U.S., and residential real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans averaged $5.0 billion and Net Interest Income (continued) increased $586.7 million, or 13%, from $4.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Private client loans averaged $14.0 billion and increased $375.5 million, or 2.8%, from $13.6 billion for the prior-year quarter. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $12.4 billion and increased $39.3 million, or slightly, from $12.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Non-U.S. loans averaged $3.4 billion and decreased $343.0 million, or 9%, from $3.7 billion for the prior-year quarter. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.4 billion and decreased $42.0 million, or 1%, from $6.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits decreased $9.1 billion, or 10%, to an average of $85.0 billion in the current quarter from $94.1 billion in the prior-year quarter. Other average interest-related funding increased $9.7 billion, or 77%, to an average of $22.2 billion in the current quarter from $12.5 billion in the prior-year quarter. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current quarter was driven by higher interest rates. Average Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits comprised 69% and 68% of total average Interest-Bearing Deposits for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Provision for Credit Losses There was a $14.0 million Provision for Credit Losses in the current quarter, as compared to a $0.5 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year quarter. The provision in the current quarter was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by a small number of large new loans and renewals and credit quality deterioration of certain CRE and C&I loans, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook. The reserve evaluated on a collective basis relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year quarter was primarily due to an increase in the collective basis reserve, driven by a weaker macroeconomic outlook at the time, partially offset by improvements in credit quality mainly within the C&I portfolio. Net recoveries in the current quarter were $0.3 million, reflecting $1.1 million of recoveries and $0.8 million of charge-offs. The prior-year quarter included $4.5 million of net charge-offs, reflecting $0.9 million of recoveries and $5.4 million of charge-offs. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A. Noninterest Expense (continued) Occupancy expense increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a $3.0 million charge related to early lease exits. Other Operating Expense increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher supplemental compensation plan expense, higher account servicing activities, and an increase to the annual Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessment rate. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was $106.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%, compared to $129.7 million in the prior-year quarter, representing an effective tax rate of 24.7%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to a lower state tax provision following the resolution of certain state matters. NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Financial Results Net Income per diluted common share decreased in the current period to $4.56 from $5.43 in the comparable prior-year period. Net Income decreased $186.1 million, or 16%, to $994.2 million in the current period from $1.18 billion in the prior-year period. Annualized return on average common equity was 12.1% in the current period and 14.9% in the prior-year period. The annualized return on average assets was 0.92% in the current period compared to 1.02% in the prior-year period. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 decreased $14.0 million from $5.24 billion in the prior-year period to $5.23 billion in the current period. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees decreased $118.7 million, or 4%, from $3.39 billion in the prior-year period to $3.27 billion in the current period, primarily driven by asset outflows and unfavorable lagged markets, partially offset by lower money market fund fee waivers. Other Noninterest Income decreased $41.5 million, or 8%, from $499.0 million in the prior-year period to $457.5 million in the current period, primarily driven by lower Foreign Exchange Trading Income, partially offset by higher Other Operating Income. Net Interest Income increased $146.2 million, or 11%, to $1.50 billion in the current period from $1.35 billion in the prior-year period, primarily due to higher average interest rates, partially offset by lower average earning assets. There was a $13.5 million Provision for Credit Losses in the current period, as compared to a $7.0 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year period. The provision was primarily due to an increase in the collective basis reserve, driven by new loans and renewals in the CRE portfolio and expectations of higher economic stress in the CRE market, particularly office CRE, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook and lower loss projections for certain large C&I loans. The reserve evaluated on a collective basis relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. Noninterest Expense increased $236.4 million, or 6%, from $3.66 billion in the prior-year period to $3.90 billion in the current period, primarily attributable to higher Compensation, Equipment and Software, and Other Operating Expense. The Provision for Income Taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 totaled $324.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.6%. The Provision for Income Taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 totaled $395.6 million, representing an effective tax rate of 25.1%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in pretax earnings and a higher level of tax benefits from tax-credit investments and tax-exempt income, partially offset by lower tax benefits from share-based compensation. 12 NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. Northern Trust voluntarily waived $6.5 million of money market fund fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 as compared to $61.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided in the table below. Net Interest Income, stated on an FTE basis, increased from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher average interest rates, partially offset by lower average earning assets. Average earning assets decreased from the prior-year period, primarily due to lower client deposits, partially offset by increased borrowing activity. The net interest margin on an FTE basis increased from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher average interest rates, partially offset by unfavorable funding mix shift. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits averaged $33.0 billion and decreased $4.5 billion, or 12%, from $37.4 billion in the prior-year period. Average Securities were $50.1 billion and decreased $6.0 billion, or 11%, from $56.1 billion in the prior-year period. Average Other Interest-Earning Assets include certain community development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, money market investments, and Federal Reserve stock of $902.8 million, $379.2 million, $358.5 million, $81.8 million and $70.0 million, respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Average taxable Securities were $47.1 billion in the current period and $53.5 billion in the prior-year period. Average nontaxable Securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $3.0 billion in the current period and $2.6 billion in the prior-year period. Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks averaged $4.4 billion in the current period and $4.2 billion in the prior-year period. Loans and leases averaged $42.2 billion and increased $1.7 billion, or 4%, from $40.6 billion in the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher levels of commercial real estate, commercial and institutional, non-U.S., residential real estate, and private client loans. Commercial real estate loans averaged $4.9 billion and increased $599.0 million, or 14%, from $4.3 billion for the prior-year period. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $12.6 billion and increased $480.9 million, or 4%, from $12.1 (1) (1) 15 NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) billion for the prior-year period. Non-U.S. loans averaged $3.4 billion and increased $117.2 million, or 4%, from $3.3 billion for the prior-year period. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.4 billion and increased $75.7 million, or 1%, from $6.3 billion for the prior-year period. Private client loans averaged $13.9 billion and increased $45.6 million from $13.8 billion for the prior-year period. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits decreased $8.7 billion, or 9%, to an average of $88.3 billion in the current period from $97.0 billion in the prior-year period. Other average interest-related funding increased $12.4 billion, to an average of $22.3 billion in the current period from $9.9 billion in the prior-year period. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current period was driven by higher interest rates. Average non-U.S. offices interest-bearing deposits comprised 69% and 67% of total average interest-bearing deposits for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Provision for Credit Losses There was a $13.5 million Provision for Credit Losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to a $7.0 million provision in the prior-year period. The provision was primarily due to an increase in the collective basis reserve, driven by new loans and renewals in the CRE portfolio and expectations of higher economic stress in the CRE market, particularly office CRE, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook and lower loss projections for certain large C&I loans. The reserve evaluated on a collective basis relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The provision in the prior-year period was primarily due to an increase in the collective basis reserve, partially offset by net recoveries during the prior-year period. The increase in the collective basis reserve was driven by a weaker macroeconomic outlook at the time, partially offset by improvements in credit quality mainly within the C&I and CRE portfolios. Net charge-offs in the current-year period totaled $2.6 million resulting from $5.6 million of charge-offs and $3.0 million of recoveries, compared to net recoveries of $4.2 million in the prior-year period resulting from $5.5 million of charge-offs and $9.7 million of recoveries. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A. Compensation expense, the largest component of Noninterest Expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to higher salary expense and $36.7 million of severance-related charges, partially offset by lower incentives. Employee Benefits expense decreased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a U.S. Qualified Plan pension settlement charge of $37.3 million in the prioryear period, partially offset by higher payroll taxes. Outside Services expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher technical services and higher legal services, partially offset by lower consulting services and lower subcustodian expense. Equipment and Software expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to higher software amortization and higher software costs. 16 NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Noninterest Expense (continued) Occupancy expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a $12.8 million charge related to early lease exits. Other Operating Expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a $25.6 million charge related to the write-off of an investment in a client capability and higher supplemental compensation plan expense. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $324.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.6%, compared to $395.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, representing an effective tax rate of 25.1%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in pretax earnings and a higher level of tax benefits from tax-credit investments and tax-exempt income, partially offset by lower tax benefits from share-based compensation. REPORTING SEGMENTS Northern Trust is organized around its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Reporting segment financial information, presented on an internal management reporting basis, is determined by accounting systems used to allocate revenue and expense to each segment, and incorporates processes for allocating assets, liabilities, equity and the applicable interest income and expense utilizing a funds transfer pricing (FTP) methodology. Under the methodology, assets and liabilities receive a funding charge or credit that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and other product characteristics on an instrument level. Additionally, segment information is presented on an FTE basis as management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest income. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. Revenues, expenses and average assets are allocated to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management, with the exception of non-recurring activities such as certain costs associated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments not directly attributable to a specific reporting segment. Reporting segment results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made. The results are also subject to refinements in revenue and expense allocation methodologies, which are typically reflected on a prospective basis. Asset Servicing Asset Servicing Net Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Net Income decreased $48.8 million, or 23%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher Noninterest Expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Net Income decreased $101.8 million, or 17%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher Noninterest Expense and lower Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, partially offset by higher Net Interest Income. Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. Asset Servicing Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, Foreign Exchange Trading Income decreased $9.4 million, or 15%, from the prior-year quarter and decreased $54.7 million, or 25%, from the prior-year period, respectively, in each case primarily driven by lower client volumes and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange swap activity within Treasury. Asset Servicing Other Noninterest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Income increased $3.6 million, or 6%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher Other Operating Income. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Income increased $13.6 million, or 7%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher allocations. Asset Servicing Net Interest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis decreased $22.1 million, or 7%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher funding costs and lower deposit balances. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis increased $154.1 million, or 21%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher average interest rates. Average earning assets increased $1.1 billion, or 1%, to $99.5 billion in the current quarter from $98.4 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily due to increased borrowing activity. Average earning assets decreased $5.3 billion, or 5%, to $101.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 from $106.5 billion in the prior-year period, primarily due to lower client deposits, partially offset by increased borrowing activity. Asset Servicing Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, there was a $3.1 million Provision for Credit Losses compared to a $5.1 million release of credit reserves in the prior-year quarter. The provision was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by a small number of large new loans and renewals and credit quality deterioration of certain C&I loans, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, there was a $3.3 million release of credit reserves compared to a $3.8 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prioryear period. The release of credit reserves was primarily due to a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook and lower loss projections for certain large C&I loans. Asset Servicing Noninterest Expense For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $48.9 million, or 6%, from the prior-year quarter, and increased $190.3 million, or 8%, from the prior-year period, in each case primarily due to higher expense allocations. Wealth Management Wealth Management Net Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Net Income decreased $27.1 million, or 13%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower Net Interest Income. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Net Income decreased $103.1 million, or 16%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher Noninterest Expense and lower Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, partially offset by a lower Provision for Income Taxes. 19 REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Wealth Management (continued) Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. Wealth Management Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Foreign Exchange Trading Income decreased $3.5 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by lower client volumes and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange swap activity within Treasury. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Foreign Exchange Trading Income decreased $13.6 million from the prior-year period, primarily driven by allocations. Wealth Management Other Noninterest Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Income increased $11.2 million, or 11%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher income allocations. Wealth Management Net Interest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis decreased $33.8 million, or 15%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher funding costs and lower average earning assets. Average earning assets decreased $5.0 billion, or 15%, to $28.7 billion in the current quarter from $33.7 billion in the prior-year quarter and decreased $2.5 billion, or 7%, to $31.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 from $34.0 billion in the prior-year period. Average earning assets decreased in Wealth Management for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 primarily due to lower client deposits. Wealth Management Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, there was a $10.9 million Provision for Credit Losses compared to a $5.6 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prioryear quarter. The provision reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by expectations of higher economic stress in the CRE market and a small number of large new loans and renewals. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, there was a $16.8 million Provision for Credit Losses compared to a $3.2 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year period. The provision was driven by an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, primarily due to new loans and renewals in the CRE portfolio and expectations of higher economic stress in the CRE market, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook and lower loss projections for certain large C&I loans. Wealth Management Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expenses of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $7.9 million, or 2%, from the prior-year quarter and increased $69.2 million, or 5%, from the prior-year period, in each case primarily reflecting higher expense allocations. Other Other—Noninterest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Income increased $3.5 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher income for existing swap agreements related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares. Other—Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Expense decreased $8.4 million, or 41%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a $17.0 million pension settlement charge in the prior-year quarter, partially offset by higher non-allocated occupancy expense primarily arising from early lease exits. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, Other Noninterest Expense decreased $23.1 million, or 41%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to a $37.3 million pension settlement charge in the prior-year period and other miscellaneous expense in the prior-year period, partially offset by higher non-allocated occupancy expense primarily arising from early lease exits. Average balances are considered to be a better measure of balance sheet trends, as period-end balances can be impacted by the timing of deposit and withdrawal activity involving large client balances. Average earning assets decreased from the prior-year quarter and prior-year period, primarily due to lower client deposits, partially offset by higher borrowing activity. Select Earning Assets. Average securities decreased from the prior-year quarter and prior-year period, reflecting the impact of repositioning and reinvesting in shortterm securities that will mature usually in one year or less. For additional discussion (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) 21 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued) relating to the securities portfolio, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A and to Note 4—Securities to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Client Deposits. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits and Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing Deposits decreased from the prior-year quarter and prior-year period as clients migrated into higher yielding products. Short-Term Borrowings. Short-term borrowings includes Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. The increase in average Other Borrowings from the prior-year quarter and prior-year period was primarily due to strategic utilization of balance sheet capacity. Stockholders’ Equity. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $157.6 million and $474.0 million to common stockholders, and cash dividends totaling $16.2 million and $37.1 million to preferred stockholders, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $158.4 million and $454.2 million to common stockholders, and cash dividends totaling $16.2 million and $37.1 million to preferred stockholders, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Corporation repurchased 14,738 and 2,426,793 shares of common stock, respectively, at a total cost of $1.1 million ($77.39 average price per share) and $201.3 million ($82.95 average price per share), respectively, including 14,738 and 356,145 shares, respectively, withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Corporation repurchased 11,080 and 309,334 shares of common stock, respectively, at a total cost of $1.2 million ($96.43 average price per share) and $35.2 million ($113.89 average price per share), respectively, all of which were shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation. ASSET QUALITY Securities Portfolio Northern Trust maintains a high quality debt securities portfolio. Debt securities not explicitly rated were grouped where possible under the credit rating of the issuer of the security. The following tables provide the fair value of available for sale (AFS) debt securities and amortized cost of held to maturity (HTM) debt securities by credit rating. As of both September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the 2% of HTM debt securities not rated by Moody’s, S&P Global or Fitch Ratings consisted of certificates of deposit with a remaining life of less than six months, as well as investments purchased by Northern Trust to fulfill its obligations under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Northern Trust fulfills its obligations under the CRA by making qualified investments for purposes of supporting institutions and programs that benefit lowto-moderate income communities within Northern Trust’s market area. Net unrealized losses within the investment securities portfolio totaled $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion at September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Net unrealized losses as of September 30, 2023 were comprised of $12.0 million and $3.4 23 ASSET QUALITY (continued) Securities Portfolio (continued) billion of gross unrealized gains and losses, respectively. Net unrealized losses as of December 31, 2022 were comprised of $9.1 million and $3.2 billion of gross unrealized gains and losses, respectively. $913.1 million of the $3.4 billion gross unrealized losses relate to AFS debt securities as of September 30, 2023, and $1.1 billion of the $3.2 billion gross unrealized losses relate to AFS debt securities as of December 31, 2022. As of September 30, 2023, the $24.3 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $338.1 million, $195.6 million, and $140.4 million related to government-sponsored agency securities, other asset-backed and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds respectively, which are primarily attributable to higher intermediate rates. As of December 31, 2022, the $26.7 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $351.6 million, $288.1 million, and $157.6 million related to government sponsored agency, other asset-backed, and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which were primarily attributable to changes in overall market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. As of December 31, 2022, the Corporation intended to sell certain AFS debt securities that were in an unrealized loss position. The securities were written down to their fair value of $2.1 billion with a $213.0 million loss recognized in Investment Security Gains (Losses), net on the consolidated statements of income for the period ended December 31, 2022. In January 2023, the securities were subsequently sold resulting in an incremental $6.9 million gain upon sale as compared to the fair value recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2022. As of September 30, 2023, the $24.9 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $1.4 billion and $400.3 million related to government-sponsored agency securities and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which are primarily attributable to higher intermediate rates. As of December 31, 2022, the $25.0 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had an unrealized loss of $1.1 billion and $436.1 million related to government-sponsored agency and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which were primarily attributable to changes in overall market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. HTM debt securities consist of securities that management intends to, and Northern Trust has the ability to, hold until maturity. For additional information relating to the securities portfolio, refer to Note 4—Securities to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financings and recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. To minimize potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities purchased or sold is monitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. It is Northern Trust’s policy to take possession, either directly or via third-party custodians, of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are held by the counterparty until their repurchase. For additional information relating to the securities sold under agreements to repurchase, refer to Note 22—Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Nonaccrual Loans and Other Real Estate Owned Nonaccrual assets consist of nonaccrual loans and other real estate owned (OREO). OREO is comprised of commercial and residential properties acquired in partial or total satisfaction of loans. The following table provides the amounts of nonaccrual loans, by loan segment and class, and of OREO that were outstanding at the dates shown, as well as the balance of loans that were delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest. Loans that are delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest can fluctuate widely based on the timing of cash collections, renegotiation and renewals. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities of $177.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties and an increase in receivables, partially offset by period earnings, net changes in other operating activities, and an increase in interest payable. Net cash used in operating activities of $1.8 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties, partially offset by period earnings. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $9.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to decreased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits. Net cash provided by investing activities of $21.8 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to decreased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits and net proceeds from HTM debt securities, partially offset by higher levels of loans. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $8.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to the decreased levels of total deposits, partially offset by increased levels of federal funds purchased and proceeds from long-term debt. The decrease in total deposits was primarily attributable to lower levels of savings, money market, and other interest-bearing deposits and lower levels of non-U.S. office interest-bearing deposits. Net cash used in financing activities of $18.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to the decreased levels of total deposits, partially offset by increased levels of federal funds purchased and short-term other borrowings. The decrease in total deposits was primarily attributable to lower levels of non-U.S. office noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits. 27 CAPITAL RATIOS The capital ratios of Northern Trust Corporation and its principal subsidiary, The Northern Trust Company, remained strong at September 30, 2023, exceeding the requirements for classification as “well-capitalized” under applicable U.S. regulatory requirements. Northern Trust is a Category II institution as defined by the Federal Reserve Board which requires us to adhere to stringent capital standards. In adhering to these standards, Northern Trust engages in a range of reporting and activities with regulators to affirm our financial strength and stability, including but not limited to, capital adequacy reporting that deducts any unrealized losses related to AFS securities from reported capital, and stringent, annual company-run and supervisory stress testing in the form of Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) exercises, which confirms our ability to remain solvent under severely adverse market conditions. The results of the 2023 Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST), published by the Federal Reserve Board on June 28, 2023, resulted in Northern Trust’s stress capital buffer and effective Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio minimum requirement remaining constant at 2.5% and 7.0%, respectively, for the annual capital plan cycle beginning on October 1, 2023 through September 30, 2024. On July 27, 2023, the U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking, known as Basel III endgame, which would change how risk-based capital requirements are determined for banking organizations including Northern Trust. The proposed rule would eliminate the existing advanced approach for determining risk weighted assets and replace it with a new expanded risk based approach. The new requirements would be phased in over a three year period beginning July 1, 2025. The Corporation is evaluating the impact of the proposed rule on our regulatory capital requirements. The table below provides capital ratios, as well as the required minimum capital ratios, for Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company determined by Basel III phased-in requirements. In March 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2023-02, “Investments—Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Tax Credit Structures Using the Proportional Amortization Method—a consensus of the Emerging Issues Task Force” (ASU 2023-02). The amendments in ASU 2023-02 permit reporting entities to elect to account for their tax equity investments, regardless of the tax credit program from which the income tax credits are received, using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met. Under the proportional amortization method, an entity amortizes the initial cost of the investment in proportion to the income tax credits and other income tax benefits received and recognizes the net amortization and income tax credits and other income tax benefits in the income statement as a component of income tax expense (benefit). In addition, ASU 2023-02 requires specific disclosures that must be applied to all investments that generate income tax credits and other income tax benefits from a tax credit program for which the entity has elected to apply the proportional amortization method in accordance with Subtopic 323-740. ASU 2023-02 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2023-02 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. In August 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-05, “Business Combinations—Joint Venture Formations (Subtopic 805-60): Recognition and Initial Measurement” (ASU 2023-05). ASU 2023-05 addresses the accounting for contributions made to a joint venture by requiring all contributions received by the joint venture to be measured at fair value upon its formation. Prior to the issuance of ASU 2023-05, U.S. GAAP did not contain specific guidance on how a joint venture should recognize contributions received. ASU 2023-05 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2025-03 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to raise sufficient funds or maintain collateral to meet balance sheet and contingent liability cash flow obligations when due, because of firm-specific or market-wide stress events. Northern Trust is a Category II institution as defined by the Federal Reserve Board which requires us to adhere to the same stringent liquidity standards as Category I institutions. In adhering to these standards, Northern Trust engages in a range of reporting and activities with regulators to affirm our financial strength and stability, including but not limited to, daily Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio calculations to regulators. We maintain a highly liquid balance sheet consisting principally of cash held at the Federal Reserve and other central banks, money market assets, and short-term investment securities, which were 60% and 63% of total assets as of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. 83% and 81% of Northern Trust’s securities portfolio is composed of U.S. Treasury, government sponsored agency and triple-A rated securities as of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Market Risk There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk associated with the banking book and trading risk. Interest rate risk associated with the banking book is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in Net Interest Income and the market value of equity, including Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) from the AFS debt securities portfolio. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to cause changes in the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE) sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with a long-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. Higher interest rates may impact the fair value of AFS debt securities which in turn affects Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), which can impact regulatory capital ratios. As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a Value-at-Risk (VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rate swaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e., change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). 29 RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) Market Risk (continued) The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. These assumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity given uncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similar terms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a more conservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analytics system that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgage analytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availability of historical data and current pricing strategies/or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point ramps upward and 100 basis point ramp downward movements in interest rates relative to forward rates as of September 30, 2023 and September 30, 2022. A 200 basis point ramp downward movement in interest rate relative to forward rate is also provided as of September 30, 2023. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period. Given the low level of interest rates at the time and assumed interest rate floors as rates approach zero, the 200 basis point ramp downward movement in interest rate relative to forward rate as of September 30, 2022 would not provide meaningful results and is therefore not provided. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.” Forwardlooking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results and outlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; future pension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; and expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectations of future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based on assumptions about many important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a number of factors; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets in general, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respect to which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • Northern Trust’s success in controlling the costs and expenses of its business operations and the impacts of any broader inflationary environment thereon; • FDIC assessments to recover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund in connection with bank closures; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, the liquidity and pricing of which may be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cybersecurity, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuation of securities, fraud, operational resilience (including systems performance), failure to maintain sustainable business practices, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust's success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as pandemics, natural disasters, terrorist events and war (including the continuing military conflict involving Ukraine and the Russian Federation and evolving events in the Middle East), and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • unexpected deposit outflows; • the effectiveness of Northern Trust’s management of its human capital, including its success in recruiting and retaining necessary and diverse personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise to support increasingly complex products and services; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arising from all such changes and volatility; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor; • the transition away from the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or changes in the calculation of alternative interest rate benchmarks; • the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatory emphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital; • changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect Northern Trust or its clients; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; 33 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns and payouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, including credit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory process, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary; • the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and • other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, including those factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the date of that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.