 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Raymond James Financial, Inc. (&#8220;RJF&#8221; or the &#8220;firm&#8221;) is a leading diversified financial services company providing private client group, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities. The firm, together with its subsidiaries, is engaged in various financial services activities, including providing investment management services to retail and institutional clients, merger &#38; acquisition and advisory services, the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities, and the sale of mutual funds and other investment products. The firm also provides corporate and retail banking services, and trust services. The firm operates predominantly in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) and, to a lesser extent, in Canada, the United Kingdom (&#8220;U.K.&#8221;), and other parts of Europe. As used herein, the terms &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221; refer to RJF and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. 

Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the &#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;RJF.&#8221; As a bank holding company (&#8220;BHC&#8221;) and financial holding company (&#8220;FHC&#8221;), RJF is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;the Fed&#8221;). 

Among the keys to our historical and continued success, our emphasis on putting the client first is at the core of our corporate values. We also believe in maintaining a conservative, long-term focus in our decision making. We believe that this disciplined decision-making approach translates to a strong, stable financial services firm for clients, associates, and shareholders. 

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS 

We currently operate through the following five segments: Private Client Group (&#8220;PCG&#8221;); Capital Markets; Asset Management; Raymond James Bank; and Other. 

The following graph depicts the relative net revenue contribution of each of our business segments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. 

* The preceding chart does not include intersegment eliminations or the Other segment. 

Private Client Group 

We provide financial planning, investment advisory and securities transaction services to clients through financial advisors. Total client assets under administration (&#8220;AUA&#8221;) in our PCG segment as of September 30, 2021 were $1.12 trillion, of which $627.1 billion related to fee-based accounts (&#8220;fee-based AUA&#8221;). We had 8,482 financial advisors affiliated with us as of September 30, 2021. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Affiliation 

We offer multiple affiliation options, which we refer to as AdvisorChoice. Financial advisors primarily affiliate with us directly as either employees or independent contractors, or as employees of the third-party firms to which we provide services through our RIA and Custody Services (&#8220;RCS&#8221;) division. 

Employee financial advisors 

Employee financial advisors work in a traditional branch supported by local management and administrative staff. They provide services predominantly to retail clients. Compensation for these financial advisors primarily includes a payout on revenues they generate and such advisors also participate in the firm&#8217;s employee benefit plans. 

Independent contractor financial advisors 

Our financial advisors who are independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, receive a higher payout percentage on the revenues they generate than employee financial advisors. Our independent contractor financial advisor option is designed to help our advisors build their businesses with as much or as little of our support as they determine they need. With specific approval, and on a limited basis, they are permitted to conduct certain other approved business activities, such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and accounting and tax services. 

RIA and Custody Services 

Through our domestic RCS division, we offer third-party RIAs and broker-dealers a range of products and services including custodial services, trade execution, research and other support and services (including access to clients&#8217; account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) for which we receive fees, which may be either transactional or based on assets under administration. Firms affiliated with us through RCS retain the fees they charge to their clients and are responsible for all of their direct costs. Financial advisors associated with firms in RCS are not included in our financial advisor counts, although their client assets, which totaled $92.7 billion as of September 30, 2021, are included in our AUA. 

Products and services 

We offer a broad range of third-party and proprietary investment products and services to meet our clients&#8217; various investment and financial needs. Revenues from this segment are typically driven by AUA and are generally either asset-based or transactional in nature. 

PCG segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 are presented in the following graph. 

* Included in &#8220;Brokerage revenues&#8221; on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

We provide the following products and services through this segment: 

&#8226; Investment services for which we charge sales commissions or asset-based fees based on established schedules. 

&#8226; Portfolio management services for which we charge either a fee computed as a percentage of the assets in the client&#8217;s account or a flat periodic fee. 

&#8226; Insurance and annuity products. 

&#8226; Mutual funds. 

&#8226; Support to third-party product partners, including sales and marketing support, distribution and accounting and administrative services. 

&#8226; Administrative services to banks to which we sweep a portion of our clients&#8217; cash deposits as part of the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program (&#8220;RJBDP&#8221;), our multi-bank sweep program. Fees received from third-party banks for these services are variable in nature and fluctuate based on client cash balances in the program, as well as the level of short-term interest rates relative to interest paid to clients by the third-party banks on balances in the RJBDP. PCG also earns servicing fees from Raymond James Bank, which are based on the number of accounts that are swept to Raymond James Bank as part of the RJBDP. These fees are eliminated in consolidation. 

&#8226; Margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed based on current interest rates. 

&#8226; Securities borrowing and lending activities with other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties. The net revenues of this business generally consist of the interest spreads generated on these activities. 

&#8226; Diversification strategies and alternative investment products to qualified clients of our affiliated financial advisors. 

Capital Markets 

Our Capital Markets segment conducts investment banking, institutional sales, securities trading, the syndication and management of investments in low-income housing funds, the majority of which qualify for tax credits (referred to as our &#8220;tax credit funds&#8221; business), and equity research. 

Capital Markets segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 are presented in the following graph. 

* Included in &#8220;Investment banking&#8221; on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

We provide the following products and services through this segment. 

Investment banking 

&#8226; Merger &#38; acquisition and advisory - We provide a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory assignments, including with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, across a number of industries throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe. 

&#8226; Equity underwriting - We provide public and private equity financing services, including the underwriting of common and preferred stock and other equity securities, to corporate clients throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe across a number of industries. 

&#8226; Debt underwriting - Our services include public finance and debt underwriting activities where we serve as a placement agent or underwriter to various issuers, including private and public corporate entities, state and local government agencies (and their political subdivisions), and non-profit entities including healthcare and higher education institutions. 

Brokerage 

&#8226; Fixed income - We earn revenues from institutional clients who purchase and sell both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds, and whole loans. We carry inventories of debt securities to facilitate client transactions. 

We also enter into interest rate derivatives to facilitate client transactions or to actively manage risk exposures that arise from our client activity, including a portion of our trading inventory. In addition, we conduct a &#8220;matched book&#8221; derivatives business where we may enter into interest rate derivative transactions with clients. In this matched book business, for every derivative transaction we enter into with a client, we enter into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider that is a third-party financial institution. 

&#8226; Equity - We earn brokerage revenues on the sale of equity products to institutional clients. Client activity is influenced by a combination of general market activity and our ability to identify attractive investment opportunities for our institutional clients. Revenues on equity transactions are generally based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. 

Our global research department supports our institutional and retail sales efforts and publishes research on a wide variety of companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. and Canadian companies across a multitude of industries. Research reports are made available to both institutional and retail clients. 

Tax credit funds 

We act as the general partner or managing member in partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in real estate entities, the majority of which qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and/or provide a mechanism for banks and other institutions to meet their Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) obligations throughout the U.S. We earn fees for the origination and sale of these investment products as well as for the oversight and management of the investments, including over the statutory tax credit compliance period when applicable. 

Asset Management 

Our Asset Management segment earns asset management and related administrative fees for providing asset management, portfolio management and related administrative services to retail and institutional clients. This segment oversees a portion of our fee-based AUA for our PCG clients through our Asset Management Services division (&#8220;AMS&#8221;) and through Raymond James Trust, N.A. (&#8220;RJ Trust&#8221;). This segment also provides asset management services through Carillon Tower Advisers and affiliates (collectively, &#8220;Carillon Tower Advisers&#8221;) for certain retail accounts managed on behalf of third-party institutions, institutional accounts and proprietary mutual funds that we manage. 

Management fees in this segment are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of our fee-billable financial assets under management (&#8220;AUM&#8221;) in both AMS, which includes the portion of fee-based AUA in PCG that is overseen by AMS, and Carillon Tower Advisers, where investment decisions are made by in-house or third-party portfolio managers or investment committees. The fee rates applied are dependent upon various factors, including the distinctive services provided and the level 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

of assets within each client relationship. The fee rates applied in Carillon Tower Advisers may also vary based on the account objective (i.e., equity, fixed income, or balanced). Our AUM are impacted by market fluctuations and net inflows or outflows of assets, including transfers between fee-based accounts and traditional transaction-based accounts within our PCG segment. Fees are generally collected quarterly and are based on balances as of the beginning of the quarter (particularly in AMS) or the end of the quarter, or based on average daily balances throughout the quarter. 

Our Asset Management segment also earns administrative fees on certain fee-based assets within PCG that are not overseen by our Asset Management segment, but for which the segment provides administrative support (e.g., record-keeping). 

Our AUM and our Carillon Tower Advisers AUM by objective as of September 30, 2021 are presented in the following graphs. 

Raymond James Bank 

Raymond James Bank is a Florida state-chartered bank and Fed member bank that provides various types of loans, including corporate loans (commercial and industrial (&#8220;C&#38;I&#8221;), commercial real estate (&#8220;CRE&#8221;) and real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;)), tax-exempt loans, residential loans, securities-based loans (&#8220;SBL&#8221;) and other loans. Raymond James Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations. Raymond James Bank also provides Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;)-insured deposit accounts, including to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Raymond James Bank generates net interest income principally through the interest income earned on loans and an investment portfolio of securities, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. 

As of September 30, 2021, corporate and tax-exempt loans represented approximately 38% of Raymond James Bank&#8217;s total assets, and 87% of such loans were U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated or purchased and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. Raymond James Bank&#8217;s investment portfolio is primarily comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;MBS&#8221;) and agency collateralized mortgage obligations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;) and is classified as available-for-sale. Raymond James Bank&#8217;s liabilities primarily consist of cash deposits that are swept from the investment accounts of PCG clients through the RJBDP. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

The following graph details the composition of Raymond James Bank&#8217;s total assets as of September 30, 2021. 

Other 

Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, certain acquisition-related expenses, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF, including the interest costs on our public debt and any losses on extinguishment of such debt. The Other segment also includes the reduction in workforce expenses, primarily the result of the elimination of certain positions, that occurred in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2020 in response to the economic environment at that time. 

Our private equity portfolio includes various direct investments, as well as investments in third-party private equity funds and various legacy private equity funds which we sponsor. 

HUMAN CAPITAL 

Our &#8220;associates&#8221; (which include our employee financial advisors and all of our other employees) and our independent contractor financial advisors (which we call our &#8220;independent advisors&#8221;) are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As a human capital-intensive business, our ability to attract, develop and retain exceptional and diverse associates and independent advisors is critical, not only in the current competitive labor market, but also to our long-term success. It is important to us to maintain a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion. To compete effectively, we must offer attractive compensation and health and wellness programs, as well as provide formal and informal opportunities for associates and advisors to develop their capabilities and reach their full potential. We also endeavor to foster and maintain our unique and long-standing values-based culture. 

As of September 30, 2021, we had approximately 15,000 associates (including 3,461 employee financial advisors) and 5,021 independent advisors. Our associates are spread across four countries in North America and Europe. However, the vast majority of our associates are located in the U.S. Of our global associates, 42% self-identify as women, and among our U.S.-based employees 24% self-identify as ethnically diverse. 

Culture 

We strive to attract individuals who are people-focused and share our values. Our culture is people-focused and rooted in the values established at the firm&#8217;s foundation. Our pledge to clients, to our advisors, and to all our other associates is that: 

&#8226; We put clients first, 

&#8226; We act with integrity, 

&#8226; We think long term, and 

&#8226; We value independence. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Our values are memorialized in a presentation we refer to as our culture &#8220;blueprint&#8221; that is communicated to all associates. One way in which we measure the health of our culture is our overall &#8220;engagement&#8221; score, which is the percentage of employees that respond to an annual associate insight survey with a positive response to several satisfaction metrics, including that they are proud to work at Raymond James. In 2021, our overall employee engagement score amongst survey respondents was 88% favorable, with a strong survey response rate of 73%. 

Diversity and inclusion 

We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce, and an inclusive work environment is a natural extension of our culture. We are committed to ensuring that all our associates feel welcomed, valued, respected and heard, so that they can fully contribute their unique talents for the benefit of their careers, our clients, our firm and our communities. Our diversity strategy is centered on three pillars: the workplace, the workforce, and the community. In our recruiting efforts, we seek to identify a diverse group of candidates for each role we seek to fill. To that end, we have built strong relationships with a variety of industry associations that represent diverse professionals, as well as with diversity groups at the colleges and universities where we recruit. We have firmwide and business unit-specific diversity and inclusion networks, which are open to all professionals at the firm and are designed to promote and advance inclusion, understanding and belonging. These networks also host various events and conferences to educate and provide avenues for all associates and independent advisors to gain understanding and capability to have an inclusive work environment, and offer mentorship opportunities to our associates. In 2021, we launched the Pride Financial Advisor Network, which provides support and resources for LGBTQ+ advisors through educational programs, interactive networking and business development opportunities. We also invest in community-supporting organizations that are dedicated to improving the lives of diverse individuals. Our firmwide diversity and inclusion advisory council stewards the firm&#8217;s efforts and provides guidance on priorities. This council is composed of associate representatives from all areas of our business and across geographic locations. In all of our diversity efforts, we strive to create opportunities for allies of diverse communities to participate, contribute and grow. We believe that to truly achieve all of the benefits of having a diverse and inclusive workforce, all associates and advisors need to be engaged in these discussions. 

Recruitment, talent development, and retention 

We seek to build a workforce that provides outstanding client service and helps clients achieve their financial goals. We have competitive programs dedicated to selecting new talent and enhancing the skills of our associates. Among other opportunities, we offer selected college students summer internships, which may lead to permanent roles, and we offer pipeline programs which accelerate the progression from entry level positions for recent graduates across many areas of the firm. We are also committed to supporting associates in reaching their professional goals. We conduct a formal annual goal setting and performance review process for each employee. We also offer associates the opportunity to participate in a variety of professional development programs. Our extensive program catalog includes courses designed to expand our associates&#8217; industry, product, technical, professional, business development, and regulatory knowledge and provide development opportunities. The firm also provides leadership development programs that prepare our leaders for challenges they will face in new roles or with expanded responsibilities. To provide associates equal opportunity to compete for new positions, we require that all roles, with the exception of certain revenue-generating positions and certain senior-level roles, be posted on our internal online career platform. We conduct ongoing and robust succession planning for roles that are within two levels of our Executive Committee and we strive to ensure we have a diverse group of candidates for such roles. We discuss the results with executive leadership and the Board of Directors several times per year. 

An important driver of our success is the continuous recruitment and retention of financial advisors. Our ability to attract high quality advisors is based on our values-based culture, our commitment to service, and the unique ways in which we provide services to our financial advisors. Individuals who want to become financial advisors can gain relevant branch experience through our Wealth Management Associate Program or move to our Advisor Mastery Program and begin building their client base. We have a department dedicated to providing practice education and management resources to our financial advisors. We also offer these advisors the opportunity to participate in conferences and workshops, and we offer resources and coaching at all levels to help them grow their businesses. These include separate national conferences for our employee and independent contractor financial advisor channels, each of which is attended by thousands of advisors each year. 

We seek to retain our associates by using their feedback to create and continually enhance programs that support their needs. We use firmwide short and targeted surveys in which we routinely ask our associates about their experiences at the firm. We also monitor and evaluate various turnover and attrition metrics. Our overarching commitment to the attraction, development, and retention of our associates results in a relatively low annualized voluntary turnover rate. Importantly, our financial advisor regrettable attrition rate for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2021, was only approximately 1%. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Compensation 

We have designed a compensation structure, including an array of benefit plans and programs, that is intended to be attractive to current and prospective associates, while also reinforcing our core values and mitigating excessive risk taking. Our competitive pay packages include base salary, incentive bonus, and equity compensation programs. Additionally, the firm makes annual contributions to support the retirement goals of each associate through our Employee Stock Ownership Plan and our Profit Sharing Plan, in addition to a matching contribution program for the 401(k) retirement savings plan. We also offer associates the opportunity to participate in an Employee Stock Purchase Plan that enables them to acquire our common stock at a discount, further increasing their ability to participate in the growth and success of the firm. As an additional retention tool, we may grant equity awards in connection with initial employment or under various retention programs for individuals who are responsible for contributing to our management, growth, and/or profitability. For certain employees who meet compensation, production, or other criteria, we also offer various non-qualified deferred compensation plans that provide a return to the participant, as well as a retention tool to the firm. 

We strive to ensure that our programs are designed to promote equitable rewards for all associates. We have enhanced our compensation practices with the goal of achieving pay equity at all levels of the organization for female and ethnically diverse associates. Every year, we conduct pay equity studies in the U.S., U.K., and Canada and make adjustments in situations if there is a pay equity gap. 

The physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing of our associates is a high priority of the firm. To that end, programs including healthcare insurance, health and flexible savings accounts, paid time off, family leave, flexible work schedules, tuition assistance, counseling services, as well as on-site services at our headquarters location of a health clinic and fitness center, are available to associates. We responded to the coronavirus (&#8220;COVID-19&#8221;) pandemic by putting the health and safety of our associates first in all of our decisions. Since March 2020, remote work has been the primary work environment for the vast majority of our associates and advisors. For the small population of those who have worked in the office during the pandemic, we have established protocols designed to mitigate the risk of community spread of the virus. We also implemented changes to some of our benefit plans to support those of our associates who were most severely affected by COVID-19. These changes included an expansion of our paid time off policy for those infected or giving care to someone infected by COVID-19, offering flexible work hours for caregivers of children or elders during times when schools were closed or only open for virtual schooling and child/adult care facilities were shut down, offering new programs to assist those in need of mental health services, and implementing extended roll-over opportunities for flexible spending accounts. 

OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING 

We have operations personnel at various locations who are responsible for processing securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements for most of our securities brokerage operations. 

The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a customized platform for our businesses. These include a platform for financial advisors designed to allow them to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses; systems that support institutional and retail sales and trading activity from initiation to settlement and custody; and thorough security protocols to protect firm and client information. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect our own information and that of our clients. We apply numerous safeguards to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of both client and firm information. 

Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance that we will continue to operate in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities or other business disruptions. We have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have devoted significant resources to maintaining those plans. Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous operations in the event of weather-related or other interruptions at our corporate headquarters in Florida, one of our operations processing or data center sites (located in Florida, Colorado, Tennessee or Michigan), and our branch and office locations throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we activated and successfully executed on our business continuity protocols and continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic under such protocols. We have endeavored to protect the health and well-being of our associates and our clients while ensuring the continuity of business operations for our clients. As a result, a substantial portion of our associates continue to work remotely. The firm continues to monitor conditions and has developed a phased approach to reopening our offices in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (&#8220;CDC&#8221;) guidelines. We have reopened our offices in a limited capacity and have been operating under strict public 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

health and safety protocols in such locations. We are planning for a full return to office in the second quarter of our fiscal 2022, which will include more work location flexibility for our associates; however, disruptions caused by variants may impact the timing of the implementation of these plans. 

COMPETITION 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive. We compete with many other financial services firms, including a number of larger securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with companies that offer web-based financial services and discount brokerage services to individual clients, usually with lower levels of service, and, more recently, financial technology companies (&#8220;fintechs&#8221;). We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, services, product selection, performance records, location and reputation in local markets. 

Our ability to compete effectively is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to develop or attract, retain and motivate qualified financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. 

REGULATION 

The following summarizes the principal elements of the regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to us as a participant in the financial services industry. The framework includes extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable laws of the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which we do business. While this framework is intended to protect our clients, the integrity of the financial markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund, it is not intended to protect our creditors or shareholders. These rules and regulations limit our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as our ability to fund RJF from our regulated subsidiaries, which include Raymond James Bank, our broker-dealer subsidiaries and our trust subsidiaries. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions that are referenced. A change in applicable statutes or regulations or in regulatory or supervisory policy may have a material effect on our business. 

We continue to experience a period of notable changes in financial regulation and supervision. We continue to monitor the likelihood of changes in taxation and regulations due to changes in the political environment. Changes in both corporate and individual taxation, as well as business regulations, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future; however, we cannot predict the exact changes or quantify their potential impacts (see &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the potential future impact on our operations). 

Banking supervision and regulation 

RJF is a BHC under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;), that has made an election to be a FHC and is subject to regulation, oversight and consolidated supervision, including periodic examination, by the Fed. Under the system of &#8220;functional regulation&#8221; established under the BHC Act, the primary regulators of our U.S. non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Fed exercising a supervisory role. Such &#8220;functionally regulated&#8221; subsidiaries include our broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), such as Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. (&#8220;RJ&#38;A&#8221;) and Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (&#8220;RJFS&#8221;), and investment advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities, among other subsidiaries. 

Our depository institution, Raymond James Bank, is an FDIC-insured depository institution that converted on June 1, 2021 from a national bank supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) to a Florida-chartered state member bank of the Fed, supervised jointly by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation (&#8220;OFR&#8221;) and the Fed. Raymond James Bank is also subject to supervision by the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;). We also have two non-depository trust company subsidiaries: RJ Trust, which is regulated, supervised, and examined by the OCC, and Raymond James Trust Company of New Hampshire (&#8220;RJTCNH&#8221;) which is regulated, supervised, and examined by the New Hampshire Banking Department (&#8220;NHBD&#8221;). RJTCNH was organized during fiscal 2021 and provides Individual Retirement Account (&#8220;IRA&#8221;) custodial services and trust services for our PCG clients. 

Collectively, the rules and regulations of the Fed, the OFR, the FDIC, the CFPB, the OCC and the NHBD cover all aspects of our banking and trust businesses, including, for example, lending practices, the receipt of deposits, capital structure, transactions with affiliates, conduct and qualifications of personnel and, as discussed further in the following sections, capital requirements. This regulatory, supervisory and oversight framework is subject to significant changes that can affect the operating costs and permissible businesses of RJF and our subsidiaries. As a part of their supervisory functions, the Fed, the 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

OFR, the FDIC the CFPB, the OCC and the NHBD also have the power to bring enforcement actions for violations of law and, in the case of the Fed, the OFR, the FDIC, the OCC, and the NHBD for unsafe or unsound practices. 

Basel III and U.S. capital rules 

We are subject to the Fed&#8217;s capital rules which establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and implement, in the U.S., the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and other capital provisions, and set the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the regulatory capital minimums (the &#8220;U.S. Basel III Rules&#8221;). The U.S. Basel III Rules: (i) establish minimum requirements for both the quantity and quality of regulatory capital; (ii) set forth a capital conservation buffer; and (iii) define the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow, including during favorable market conditions, and to return capital to shareholders, or require us to raise additional capital. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be adversely affected. See &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this Form 10-K for more information. 

Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger discretionary, and in certain cases, mandatory actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the financial results of RJF and Raymond James Bank. In addition, failure to maintain the capital conservation buffer would result in constraints on distributions, including limitations on dividend payments and stock repurchases, and certain discretionary bonus payments based on the amount of the shortfall and eligible retained income. Under the capital adequacy rules, RJF and Raymond James Bank must meet specific capital ratio requirements that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under the rules. The capital amounts and classification for RJF and Raymond James Bank are also subject to the qualitative judgments of U.S. regulators based on components of capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions and other factors. 

Under applicable capital rules, RJF would need to obtain prior approval from the Fed if its repurchases or redemptions of equity securities over a twelve-month period would reduce its net worth by ten percent or more and an exemption were not available. Guidance from the Fed also provides that RJF would need to inform the Fed in advance of repurchasing common stock in certain prescribed situations, such as if it were experiencing, or at risk of experiencing, financial weaknesses or considering expansion, either through acquisitions or other new activities, or if the repurchase would result in a net reduction in common equity over a quarter. Further, Fed guidance indicates that, pursuant to the Fed&#8217;s general supervisory and enforcement authority, Fed supervisory staff should prevent a BHC from repurchasing its common stock if such action would be inconsistent with the BHC&#8217;s prospective capital needs and safe and sound operation. 

See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further information. 

Source of strength 

The Fed requires that BHCs, such as RJF, serve as a source of financial strength for any of its subsidiary depository institutions. The term &#8220;source of financial strength&#8221; is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such subsidiaries. Under this requirement, RJF could be required to provide financial assistance to Raymond James Bank in the future should it experience financial distress. 

Transactions between affiliates 

Transactions between (i) Raymond James Bank, RJ Trust, or their subsidiaries on the one hand and (ii) RJF or its other subsidiaries or affiliates on the other hand are subject to compliance with Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W issued by the Fed, which generally limit the types and amounts of such transactions that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on market terms. These laws and regulations generally do not apply to transactions between Raymond James Bank or RJ Trust and their respective subsidiaries. 

The Volcker Rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally prohibits certain transactions and imposes a market terms requirement on certain other transactions between (i) RJF or its affiliates on the one hand and (ii) covered funds for which RJF or its affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by RJF or its affiliates on the other hand. See &#8220;The Volcker Rule&#8221; in the following section. 

Deposit insurance 

Raymond James Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act because it provides deposits covered by FDIC insurance, generally up to $250,000 per account ownership type. For banks with greater than $10 billion in assets, which includes 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Raymond James Bank, the FDIC&#8217;s current assessment rate calculation relies on a scorecard designed to measure financial performance and ability to withstand stress, in addition to measuring the FDIC&#8217;s exposure should the bank fail. 

Prompt corrective action 

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;) requires the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks, such as Raymond James Bank: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than the category indicated by its capital ratios if the institution is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital requirements could also require a depository institution to raise capital. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Although the prompt corrective action regulations do not apply to BHCs, such as RJF, the Fed is authorized to take appropriate action at the BHC level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the BHC&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain instances related to an undercapitalized depository institution subsidiary, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the BHC, this guarantee would take priority over the BHC&#8217;s general unsecured creditors. As of September 30, 2021, Raymond James Bank was categorized as well-capitalized. 

The Volcker Rule 

RJF is subject to the Volcker Rule, which generally prohibits BHCs and their subsidiaries and affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exceptions. 

We have proprietary private equity investments that meet the definition of covered funds under the Volcker Rule. The conformance period for compliance with the rule with respect to investments in covered funds was July 2017; however, banking entities were able to apply for an extension to provide up to an additional five years to conform investments in certain illiquid funds. The majority of our covered fund investments meet the criteria to be considered an illiquid fund under the Volcker Rule and we received approval from the Fed to continue to hold such investments until July 2022. We have executed the appropriate strategies to comply with the Volcker Rule for many of our covered fund investments and plan to either divest or restructure the remainder of our covered fund investments on or prior to the July 2022 deadline such that any holdings will be in compliance with the Volcker Rule after the extension expires in July 2022. 

Compensation practices 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Fed. Compensation regulation in the financial industry continues to evolve, and we expect these regulations to change over a number of years. The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have provided guidance designed to ensure incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with safety and soundness. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. financial regulators to adopt rules on incentive-based payment arrangements. The U.S. financial regulators proposed revised rules in 2016, which have not yet been finalized. 

Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) regulations 

Raymond James Bank is subject to the CRA, which is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound bank operations. Under the CRA, the Fed, the FDIC and/or the OCC are required to periodically examine and assign to each bank a public CRA rating. If any insured depository institution subsidiary of a FHC fails to maintain at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating under the CRA, the FHC would be subject to restrictions on certain new activities and acquisitions. 

On July 20, 2021, the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC issued a joint statement in which they committed to working together to jointly modernize the CRA regulations. Until such new regulations are implemented, Raymond James Bank will continue to 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

operate under the Fed&#8217;s CRA regulations currently in effect. At this time, it is uncertain what impact, if any, the impending CRA regulations will have on Raymond James Bank and other depositories with respect to their CRA activities. 

Other restrictions 

FHCs, such as RJF, generally can engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are otherwise permissible for BHCs as long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for FHCs. Among other things, the broader range of permissible activities for FHCs includes underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities and making investments in non-FHCs or merchant banking activities. We are required to obtain Fed approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both within and outside the U.S. 

The Fed, however, has the authority to limit an FHC&#8217;s ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible, and will likely do so if the FHC does not satisfactorily meet certain requirements of the Fed. For example, if an FHC or any of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries ceases to maintain its status as &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements, as well as additional limitations or conditions. If the deficiencies persist, the FHC may be required to divest its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries or to cease engaging in activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. 

Broker-dealer and securities regulation 

The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws in the U.S. Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to SEC regulations relating to their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping, privacy requirements, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business. Our primary U.S. broker-dealers, RJ&#38;A and RJFS, are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states. 

Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. Outside of the U.S., we have additional offices primarily in Canada and Europe and are subject to regulations in those areas. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (&#8220;SROs&#8221;), such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (&#8220;IIROC&#8221;), and securities exchanges. These SROs adopt and amend rules for regulating the industry, subject to the approval of government agencies. These SROs also conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers. 

The SEC, SROs and state securities regulators may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers, employees or other associated persons. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and may adversely impact the reputation of a broker-dealer. 

Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act (&#8220;SIPA&#8221;) and are required by federal law to be members of the Securities Investors Protection Corporation (&#8220;SIPC&#8221;). The SIPC was established under SIPA, and oversees the liquidation of broker-dealers during liquidation or financial distress. The SIPC fund provides protection for cash and securities held in client accounts up to $500,000 per client, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances. 

U.S. broker-dealer capital 

Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to certain of the SEC&#8217;s financial stability rules, including the: (i) net capital rule; (ii) customer protection rule; (iii) record-keeping rules; and (iv) notification rules. Broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further information pertaining to our broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements. 

Standard of care 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. In June 2019, the SEC adopted a package of rule-makings and interpretations related to the provision of advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers, including 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS. Among other things, Regulation Best Interest requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail client when making a recommendation to that client of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. Form CRS requires that broker-dealers and investment advisers provide retail investors with a brief summary document containing simple, easy-to-understand information about the nature of the relationship between the parties. Our implementation of these regulations resulted in our review and modification of certain of our policies and procedures and associated supervisory and compliance controls, as well as the implementation of additional client disclosures, which included us providing related education and training to financial advisors. 

Various states have also proposed, or adopted, laws and regulations seeking to impose new standards of conduct on broker-dealers that may differ from the SEC&#8217;s new regulations, which may lead to additional implementation costs. The Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;) has also reinstated the historical &#8220;five-part test&#8221; for determining who is an investment advice &#8220;fiduciary&#8221; when dealing with certain retirement plans and accounts and proposed a new exemption to allow investment advice fiduciaries to receive transaction-based compensation and engage in certain principal trades. In addition, the DOL is expected to amend the rule that determines whether an investment professional is a fiduciary to their clients&#8217; retirement accounts under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and Internal Revenue Code. Imposing such a new standard of care on additional client relationships could result in incremental costs for our business and we are evaluating how these regulatory changes may further impact our business. 

Other non-U.S. regulation 

Raymond James Ltd. (&#8220;RJ Ltd.&#8221;) is currently registered as an investment dealer in all provinces and territories in Canada. The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions, which are charged with the administration of securities laws. Investment dealers in Canada are subject to regulation by IIROC, a SRO under the oversight of the securities commissions that make up the Canadian Securities Administrators. IIROC is responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and has been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members, including RJ Ltd. IIROC also requires that RJ Ltd. be a member of the Canadian Investors Protection Fund, whose primary role is investor protection. This fund provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to 1 million Canadian dollars (&#8220;CAD&#8221;) per client, with additional coverage of CAD 1 million for certain types of accounts. 

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered in, and operate from, the U.K. which has a highly developed and comprehensive regulatory regime. Certain of these subsidiaries operate in the retail sector, providing investment and financial planning services to high-net-worth individuals, while others provide brokerage and investment banking services to institutional clients. These subsidiaries are authorized and regulated by the U.K. conduct regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;), and have limited permissions to carry out business in certain other E.U. countries as part of treaty arrangements. We do not expect the U.K.&#8217;s withdrawal from the E.U. (&#8220;Brexit&#8221;) to materially impact our business. 

Investment management regulation 

Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. The majority of our asset managers are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as amended, and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of our asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended for the benefit of our clients. 

Anti-money laundering, economic sanctions, and anti-bribery and corruption regulation 

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (&#8220;PATRIOT Act&#8221;), the Customer Due Diligence Rule, and the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (&#8220;AMLA&#8221;), contain anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to all financial institutions, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through these and other provisions, the BSA, the PATRIOT Act, and AMLA seek to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the U.S. contain some similar provisions. 

The U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers economic and trade sanctions programs and enforces sanctions regulations with which all U.S. persons must comply. The European Union (&#8220;E.U.&#8221;) as well as various countries have 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

also adopted economic sanctions programs targeted at countries, entities and individuals that are involved in terrorism, hostilities, embezzlement or human rights violations. 

In addition, various countries have adopted laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, related to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. The scope of the types of payments or other benefits covered by these laws is very broad and is subject to significant uncertainties that may be clarified only in the context of further regulatory guidance or enforcement proceedings. 

RJF and its affiliates have implemented and maintain internal policies, procedures, and controls to meet the compliance obligations imposed by such U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations concerning anti-money laundering, economic sanctions, and anti-bribery and corruption. Failure to continue to meet the requirements of these regulations could result in supervisory action, including fines. 

Privacy and data protection 

U.S. federal law establishes minimum federal standards for financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain limitations on disclosure to third parties of consumer information. U.S. state laws and regulations adopted under U.S. federal law impose obligations on RJF and its subsidiaries for protecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of client information, and require notice of data breaches to certain U.S. regulators and to clients. The SEC&#8217;s Regulation S-ID mandates the development and implementation of a written Identity Theft Prevention Program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. The California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective on January 1, 2020, imposes privacy compliance obligations with regard to the personal information of California residents, including requiring companies to provide certain specific disclosures to California consumers, and provides for a number of specific rights for California residents. 

Similarly, the General Data Protection Regulation (&#8220;GDPR&#8221;) imposes additional requirements for companies that collect or store personal data of E.U. residents, including residents of the U.K. since GDPR was adopted into U.K. law following the U.K.&#8217;s departure from the E.U. GDPR&#8217;s legal requirements extend to all foreign companies that solicit and process personal data of E.U. and U.K. residents, imposing a strict data protection compliance regime that includes new consumer rights actions that must be responded to by organizations. Canadian data privacy laws contain many provisions similar to U.S. financial privacy laws and are currently undergoing legislative reform at a federal and provincial level. We have implemented policies, processes, and training with regard to communicating to our clients and business partners required information relating to financial privacy and data security. We continue to monitor regulatory developments on both a domestic and international level to assess requirements and potential impacts on our global business operations. 

The multitude of data privacy laws and regulations adds complexity and cost to managing compliance and data management capabilities and can result in potential litigation, regulatory fines and reputational harm. Data privacy requirements compel companies to track personal information use and provide greater transparency on data practices to consumers. In addition, technology advances in the areas of artificial intelligence, mobile applications, and remote connectivity solutions have increased the collection and processing of personal information as well as the risks associated with unauthorized disclosure and access to personal information. 

Legislative and regulatory changes in connection with COVID-19 

The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in governments around the world implementing numerous measures to help control the spread of the virus, including, among others, quarantines, travel restrictions and business curtailments. In addition, governments globally intervened with fiscal policy to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, including the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (&#8220;CARES&#8221;) Act in the U.S., which aimed to provide economic relief to businesses and individuals. In addition to the CARES Act enacted in March 2020, the U.S. government enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 in December 2020. The December 2020 stimulus bill provides additional emergency COVID-19 relief, as well as extends certain provisions of the CARES Act. In March 2021, the U.S. government enacted the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, which provides further economic relief resulting from to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Under the CARES Act, financial institutions were permitted to temporarily suspend any determination of a loan modification as a result of the effects of COVID-19 as being a troubled debt restructuring (&#8220;TDR&#8221;), including impairment for accounting purposes. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 extends such relief until the earlier of: (1) 60 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates; or (2) January 1, 2022. We elected to apply the extension for relief under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 to certain loan modifications that primarily relate to short-term payment 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

deferral and have not classified such modifications as TDRs. See &#8220;Item 7 - Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk management - Credit risk&#8221; for further information. 

The CARES Act further provides a number of consumer finance protections. The act provides a range of forbearance rights with respect to any federally backed residential or multi-family mortgage loan and generally limits the ability of a lender or servicer to institute foreclosure or similar proceedings. These provisions are consistent with supervisory guidance previously issued by federal banking agencies, which also stated that they would not criticize financial institutions for working with customers affected by the outbreak in a safe and sound manner. We have modified our processes to ensure full compliance and have continued, as appropriate, to support affected businesses and individuals during this time. Many state and local authorities have also taken, or are considering taking, legislative, executive, or other action to respond to the economic disruptions caused by the spread of COVID-19, including with respect to foreclosure and repossession moratoriums. 

On November 4, 2021, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;) issued an Emergency Temporary Standard (&#8220;ETS&#8221;) mandating that all employers with more than 100 employees ensure their workers are either fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or produce, on a weekly basis, a negative COVID test, and imposing substantial penalties for noncompliance. The ETS provides for compliance dates of December 5, 2021 and January 4, 2022. On November 12, 2021, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals extended its stay of the rule&#8217;s enforcement pending further judicial review and ordered that OSHA take no steps to implement or enforce the mandate until further court order. OSHA has announced that it suspended activities related to the implementation and enforcement of the ETS pending future developments in the litigation. We will continue to monitor federal, state and local legislative and regulatory developments and endeavor to comply with all applicable final rules. 

The Company&#8217;s legislative and regulatory environment may continue to change in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as new or modified laws, regulations and guidance may continue to be promulgated at very short notice. 

Alternative reference rate transition 

Central banks and regulators have convened working groups to transition away from the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;) to replacement interest rate benchmarks. On March 5, 2021, the FCA, which regulates LIBOR, announced it will cease publication of the most commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors after June 30, 2023, though the less commonly used tenors will cease publication after December 31, 2021. U.S. federal banking agencies have issued guidance strongly encouraging institutions to cease entering into contracts that reference LIBOR as soon as practicable, and no later than December 31, 2021. Central banks and regulators in the U.S. and other jurisdictions are working to implement the transition to suitable replacements for LIBOR. To facilitate an orderly transition away from LIBOR, we established an enterprise-wide team to assess and implement necessary changes to our contracts pursuant to the Alternative Reference Rates Committee&#8217;s recommendations. This team has identified the inventory of existing contracts that will be impacted by the discontinuance of LIBOR and is working to transition those contracts accordingly. Our enterprise-wide team has also directed updates to systems, processes, documentation, and models, with additional updates expected through 2023, as we continue our transition. In conjunction with our corporate communications department, we created a plan to advise our financial advisors and clients of the change for certain impacted products. We have selected replacement rates for our LIBOR-based products based on peer benchmarking and industry research and have created a product strategy for offering non-LIBOR based products in advance of the December 31, 2021 deadline. Under that strategy, we began offering Secured Overnight Financing Rate (&#8220;SOFR&#8221;)-linked derivatives and plan to offer SOFR-based SBL beginning December 2021. We have identified a plan to respond to the impacts of the alternative reference rate transition, and have taken action, or plan to take action, timely. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) are as follows: 

##TABLE_START Paul D. Allison 65 Chairman, President and CEO - Raymond James Ltd. since January 2009 James E. Bunn 48 President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since December 2018 and Head of Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since January 2014; Co-President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc., October 2017 - December 2018 John C. Carson, Jr. 65 President since April 2012; President - Morgan Keegan &#38; Company, LLC, formerly known as Morgan Keegan &#38; Company, Inc., since July 2013 George Catanese 62 Chief Risk Officer since February 2006 Scott A. Curtis 59 President - Private Client Group since June 2018; President - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. since January 2012 Jeffrey A. Dowdle 57 Chief Operating Officer and Head of Asset Management Group since October 2019; Chief Administrative Officer, August 2018 - October 2019; President - Asset Management Group, May 2016 - October 2019; Executive Vice President - Asset Management Group, February 2014 - May 2016 Tashtego S. Elwyn 50 Chief Executive Officer and President - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since June 2018; President - Private Client Group - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc., January 2012 - June 2018 Thomas A. James 79 Chairman Emeritus since February 2017; Executive Chairman, May 2010 - February 2017 Bella Loykhter Allaire 68 Executive Vice President - Technology and Operations - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since June 2011 Jodi L. Perry 50 President - Independent Contractor Division - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. since June 2018; Senior Vice President, National Director - ICD - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., May 2018 - June 2018; Senior Vice President, ICD Regional Director - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., June 2012 - May 2018 Steven M. Raney 56 Chairman - Raymond James Bank, since November 2020; President and CEO - Raymond James Bank since January 2006 Paul C. Reilly 67 Chairman since February 2017 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010; Director since January 2006 Jonathan N. Santelli 50 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2016; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel - First Republic Bank, October 2013 to April 2016 Paul M. Shoukry 38 

Chief Financial Officer since January 2020 and Treasurer since February 2018; Senior Vice President - Finance and Investor Relations, January 2017 - December 2019; Senior Vice President - Treasury, January 2017 - February 2018; Vice President - Finance and Investor Relations, July 2012 - December 2016 

##TABLE_END

Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Our Internet address is www.raymondjames.com. We make available on our website, free of charge and in printer-friendly format including &#8220;.pdf&#8221; file extensions, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our reports and other information that we electronically file with the SEC are also available free of charge on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

FACTORS AFFECTING &#8220;FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS&#8221; 

Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives, business prospects, anticipated savings, financial results (including expenses, earnings, liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures), anticipated timing and benefits of our acquisitions and our level of success in integrating acquired businesses, industry or market conditions, demand for and pricing of our products, anticipated results of litigation, regulatory developments, impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, effects of accounting pronouncements, and general economic conditions. In addition, words such as &#8220;believes,&#8221; &#8220;expects,&#8221; &#8220;anticipates,&#8221; &#8220;intends,&#8221; &#8220;plans,&#8221; &#8220;projects,&#8221; and future or conditional verbs such as &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;could,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; and &#8220;would,&#8221; as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees, and they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements and urge you to carefully consider the risks described in &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this report. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statement in the event it later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

