 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

General 

SHUSA is the parent holding company of SBNA, a national banking association, SC, a consumer finance company headquartered in Dallas, Texas; SSLLC, a broker-dealer headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts; BSI, a financial services company headquartered in Miami, Florida that offers a full range of banking services to foreign individuals and corporations based primarily in Latin America; SIS, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in New York providing services in investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities; SFS, a consumer credit institution headquartered in Puerto Rico; and several other subsidiaries. SHUSA is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and the Bank's main office is in Wilmington, Delaware. SC is headquartered in Dallas, Texas. SHUSA is also the parent company of SSLLC, SIS and another SHUSA subsidiary, SAM, which are registered investment advisers with the SEC.SHUSA's two largest subsidiaries by asset size and revenue are the Bank and SC. SHUSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Santander. 

As of December 31, 2020, SC was owned approximately 80.2% by SHUSA and 19.8% by other shareholders. SC Common Stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol "SC." 

The Bank's primary business consists of attracting deposits and providing other retail banking services through its network of retail branches, and originating small business loans, middle market, large and global commercial loans, multifamily loans, residential mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and auto and other consumer loans throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern areas of the United States, principally located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. At December 31, 2020, the Bank had 580 branches and 2,214 ATMs across its footprint. The Bank uses its deposits, as well as other financing sources, to fund its loan and investment portfolios. The Bank earns interest income on its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, the Bank generates non-interest income from a number of sources, including deposit and loan services, sales of loans and investment securities, capital markets products and BOLI. The Bank's principal non-interest expenses include employee compensation and benefits, occupancy and facility-related costs, technology and other administrative expenses. The financial results of the Bank are affected by the economic environment, including interest rates and consumer and business confidence and spending, as well as the competitive conditions within the Bank's geographic footprint. 

SC is a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing and delivering service to dealers and customers across the full credit spectrum. SC's primary business is the indirect origination and servicing of RICs and leases, principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. Additionally, SC sells consumer RICs through flow agreements and, when market conditions are favorable, it accesses the ABS market through securitizations of consumer RICs. SAF is SC&#8217;s primary vehicle financing brand, and is available as a finance option for automotive dealers across the United States 

Since May 2013, under the Chrysler Agreement with FCA, SC has operated as FCA's preferred provider for consumer loans, leases, and dealer loans and provides services to FCA customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. Refer to Note 20 for additional details. On June 28, 2019, SC entered into an amendment to the Chrysler Agreement which modified that agreement to, among other things, adjust certain performance metrics, exclusivity commitments and payment provisions. That amendment also terminated the previously disclosed tolling agreement, dated July 11, 2018, between the Company and FCA. In January 2021, FCA and Peugeot completed their merger, creating the fourth largest automobile manufacturer in the world. 

Segments 

The Company's reportable segments are focused principally around the customers the Company serves. At December 31, 2020, the Company has identified the following reportable segments: 

CBB 

The CBB segment includes the products and services provided to Bank consumer and business banking customers, including consumer deposit, business banking, residential mortgage, unsecured lending and investment services. This segment provides a wide range of products and services to consumers and business banking customers, including demand and interest-bearing demand deposit accounts, money market and savings accounts, CDs and retirement savings products. It also provides lending products such as credit cards, mortgages, home equity lines of credit, and business loans such as business lines of credit and commercial cards. The Bank also finances indirect consumer automobile RICs through an intercompany agreement with SC. In addition, the Bank provides investment services to its retail customers, including annuities, mutual funds, and insurance products. Santander Universities, which provides grants and scholarships to universities and colleges as a way to foster education through research, innovation and entrepreneurship, is the last component of this segment. 

C&#38;I 

The C&#38;I segment provides commercial lines, loans, letters of credit, receivables financing and deposit services to medium- and large-sized commercial customers, as well as financing and deposits for government entities. This segment also provides niche product financing for specific industries. 

CRE &#38; VF 

The CRE &#38; VF segment offers CRE loans and multifamily loans to customers. This segment also offers commercial loans to dealers and financing for commercial equipment and vehicles. This category also includes the Bank&#8217;s community development finance activities, including originating CRA-eligible loans and making CRA-eligible investments. 

CIB 

The CIB segment serves the needs of global commercial and institutional customers by leveraging Santander's international footprint to provide financing and banking services to corporations with over $500 million in annual revenues. CIB also includes SIS, which provides services in investment banking, institutional sales, and trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities. CIB's offerings and strategy are based on Santander's local and global capabilities in wholesale banking. 

SC 

The SC reporting segment consists of the results of the specialized consumer finance company as described in our General section above, adjusted for purchase marks and eliminations of amounts related to intercompany agreements SC has entered into with SHUSA and the Bank. All intercompany revenue and fees between SC and SHUSA or its subsidiaries are eliminated in the consolidated results of the Company. 

The financial results for each of these reportable segments are included in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in Item 7, "Line of Business Results" within the MD&#38;A section of this Form 10-K. These results have been presented based on the Company's management structure and management accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are specific to the Company and, as a result, the financial results of the Company's reportable segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial institutions. 

Other 

The Other category includes certain immaterial subsidiaries such as BSI, SIS, SSLLC, and SFS, the unallocated interest expense on the Company's borrowings and other debt obligations and certain unallocated corporate income and indirect expenses. 

Human Capital Management 

Our employees are central to our Company&#8217;s success. Our Company invests significant resources to shepherd a Company culture that is Simple, Personal and Fair and to attract, develop and retain the high-caliber workforce needed to meet our corporate goals. We invest in our 15,698 employees (as of December 31, 2020) by seeking to create a diverse and inclusive work environment, providing competitive compensation and benefits, quality training and development opportunities, and ensuring a safe and healthy workplace. 

Human Resources and Communications Teams 

Our HR and Communications teams are responsible for: 

&#8226; Communications &#8211; leads and manages employee communications and supports employee and customer events across the organization, as well as leads and manages proactive communications for issue resolution and overall media relations management. 

&#8226; Corporate Social Responsibility - manages community development activities on behalf of the Bank; including philanthropy, community partnerships, and volunteerism. 

&#8226; Compensation, Payroll and Benefits &#8211; responsible for compensation and benefits strategy and consulting with the business on compensation matters and compensation governance, as well as payroll and benefits support. 

&#8226; Talent Acquisition &#8211; sources, hires, and onboards the best-qualified candidates, from within or outside of the organization. 

&#8226; Talent Management &#8211; develops, engages, and retains the right talent to ensure SHUSA operates as a high-performing organization and attains business objectives. 

&#8226; Learning &#38; Development &#8211; partners with business areas to design, develop, and implements learning solutions that provide employees with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to meet and exceed the organization&#8217;s goals and objectives. 

&#8226; Employee Relations &#8211; supports the Company to assist with conflict resolution, internal investigations of discrimination or harassment, questions on HR policies and procedures for all employees. 

&#8226; DE&#38;I - focuses on supporting workforce diversity. 

DE&#38;I 

We define DE&#38;I as respecting and valuing differences such as, but not limited to, gender, age, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, education, physical and cognitive abilities, veteran status and religion. We believe that a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment helps create prosperity for employees, customers and our communities. 

Our culture is underpinned by our core values and includes an unwavering commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Our DE&#38;I Office supports the goals of further increasing workforce diversity, positioning the Company as an employer of choice that retains the best and brightest talent by educating team members about the benefits of fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, Our employee resource groups foster career growth through networking, mentoring, professional development, community efforts, and philanthropy. We use multiple resources, including engaging with outside vendors and participating in various job fairs and networking events to help ensure that our job postings and recruitment efforts, including those for senior hires, reach individuals with disabilities, veterans, women, and minorities. The DE&#38;I Office will continue to expand and support diversity and inclusion efforts within our company and our communities. 

Compensation and Benefits 

We provide competitive compensation, benefits, and services that help attract, retain and incentivize our employees. Our compensation and benefits package includes competitive pay, healthcare, retirement benefits, as well as paid time off and holidays, parental leave, disability benefits, military leave, and paid development and volunteer time off, along with other benefits and employee resources. We design our incentive compensation in order to reward pay for performance while appropriately mitigating risk in line with our corporate behaviors and ethical principles. 

Our workforce decreased from approximately 17,000 employees in 2019 to 15,698 employees at December 31, 2020, driven primarily by the sale of SBC. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2020, the Company's 12-month rolling voluntary attrition rate was 13.5%. 

Learning and Development 

The Company invests significant resources to train and develop our employees. Our programs provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build management skills, and lead their organization. We deliver numerous learning opportunities to aid in employee development, ensure compliance, and improve business acumen including quarterly compliance curriculums, workplace safety awareness, specialized job role training, and information security training. 

Health and Wellness 

The Company is committed to the health and safety of our employees. As such, we invest in programs designed to improve physical, mental, and financial well-being. The Company sponsors two medical plans that provide comprehensive medical coverage, telemedicine and wellness tools, condition management and support, health and well-being, and therapy applications. During the pandemic, the Company increased the mental health tools available to employees and also provides all employees with comprehensive paid leave programs and an employee assistance program that includes counseling sessions at no cost. 

In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on our human capital management. In March 2020, we responded quickly to allow our non-location dependent staff to work remotely, while instituting various new protocols and procedures for the safety of our employees. Some of these protocols included, but are not limited to, enhanced facility cleanings, reconfiguration of the workplace to allow for social distancing, providing our employees personal protective equipment, the implementation of a daily health screen prior to reporting to our facilities, and comprehensive training for employees on these new protocols. The Company also established new initiatives to aid employees, such as a Temporary Emergency Paid Leave Program that provided employees with up to 120 hours of additional paid time off to assist with dependent care needs related to COVID-19, and pay premiums for frontline customer support workers to help defray additional costs incurred while working during the initial stages of the pandemic. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 90% of our non-branch workforce was working remotely. 

Competition 

The Bank is subject to substantial competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in lending funds. The primary factors in competing for deposits include the ability to offer attractive rates, the convenience of office locations, the availability of alternate channels of distribution, and servicing capabilities. Direct competition for deposits comes primarily from other national, regional, and state banks, thrift institutions, and broker-dealers. Competition for deposits also comes from money market mutual funds, corporate and government securities, and credit unions. The primary factors driving competition for commercial and consumer loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, service levels and the range of products and services offered. Competition for originating loans normally comes from thrift institutions, national and state banks, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, finance companies, and insurance companies. 

The Company also provides investment management, broker-dealer and private banking services for its clients. We face competition in providing these services from trust companies, full-service banks, asset managers, investment advisors, securities dealers, mutual fund companies, and other financial institutions. 

SC is also subject to substantial competition, particularly in the automobile finance industry. SC competes on the pricing offered on loans and leases as well as the customer service SC provides automobile dealer customers. Pricing for these loans and leases is transparent because SC, along with its industry competitors, posts pricing for loans and leases on web-based credit application aggregation platforms. When dealers submit applications for consumers acquiring vehicles, the y can compare SC's pricing against its competitors&#8217; pricing. Dealer relationships are important in the automotive finance industry. Vehicle finance providers tailor product offerings to meet dealers' needs. 

While the used car financing market is fragmented with no single lender accounting for more than 10% of the market, there are a number of competitors in both the new and used car markets that have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of the Company&#8217;s competitors may have lower cost structures, or funding costs, and be less reliant on securitizations. The Company believes it can compete effectively by continuing to expand and deepen its relationships with dealers. In addition, through its Chrysler Capital brand, the Company benefits from FCA&#8217;s subvention programs and relationships with its dealers. 

The Company&#8217;s primary competitors for the Bank and SC are: 

&#8226; national and regional banks; 

&#8226; credit unions; 

&#8226; independent financial institutions; and 

&#8226; the affiliated finance companies of automotive manufacturers. 

Supervision and Regulation 

SHUSA is a BHC pursuant to the BHC Act. As a BHC, the Company is subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve. SBNA is a national bank chartered under the National Bank Act and subject to supervision by the OCC and a member of the FDIC. In addition, the CFPB has oversight over SHUSA, SBNA, and SHUSA&#8217;s other non-bank affiliates, including SC, for compliance with federal consumer protection laws. 

Refer to the "Regulatory Matters" section within Item 7- MD&#38;A for discussion of current regulatory matters impacting the Company. 

BHC Activity and Acquisition Restrictions 

Federal laws restrict the types of activities in which BHCs may engage, and subject them to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and policies. BHCs may engage in the business of banking and managing and controlling banks, as well as closely-related activities. 

The Company would be required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve if the Company were to acquire shares of any depository institution or any holding company of a depository institution, or any financial entity that is not a depository institution, such as a lending company. 

Control of the Company or the Bank 

Under the Change in Bank Control Act, individuals, corporations or other entities acquiring SHUSA's common stock may, alone or together with other investors, be deemed to control the Company and thereby the Bank. Ownership of more than 10% of SHUSA&#8217;s capital stock may be deemed to constitute &#8220;control&#8221; if certain other control factors are present. If deemed to control the Company, those persons or groups would be required to obtain the Federal Reserve's approval to acquire the Company&#8217;s common stock and could be subject to certain ongoing reporting procedures and restrictions under federal law and regulations. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies adopted certain operational and managerial standards for depository institutions, including internal audit system components, loan documentation requirements, asset growth parameters, information technology and data security practices, and compensation standards for officers, directors and employees. 

Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund, which is administered by the FDIC. The Bank's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions like the Bank. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against banking institutions and may terminate an institution&#8217;s deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. 

The FDIC charges financial institutions deposit premium assessments to ensure it has reserves to cover deposits that are under FDIC-insured limits, which is currently $250,000 per depositor per ownership category for each ownership deposit account category. 

FDIC insurance premium expenses were $45.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Restrictions on Dividends and Subsidiary Banking Institution Capital Distributions 

Under the FDIA, insured depository institutions must be classified in one of five defined tiers (well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized). Under OCC regulations, an institution is considered &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (iii) has a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) has a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and (v) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2020, the Bank met the criteria to be classified as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; 

If capital levels fall to significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Pursuant to FDIA and OCC regulations, institutions which are not categorized as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are restricted from making capital distributions, which include cash dividends, stock redemptions and repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the institution&#8217;s capital account. 

Federal banking laws, regulations and policies limit the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to the Company. The Bank must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend or make any other capital distribution if, after such dividend or distribution: (1) the Bank&#8217;s total distributions to the Company within that calendar year would exceed 100% of its net income during the year plus retained net income for the prior two years; (2) the Bank would not meet capital levels imposed by the OCC in connection with any order, or (3) the Bank is not adequately capitalized at the time. In addition, the OCC's prior approval is required if the OCC deems it to be in troubled condition or a problem institution. 

Any dividends declared and paid have the effect of reducing the Bank&#8217;s Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets and risk-based capital ratios. During 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company paid cash dividends of $125.0 million, $400.0 million and $410.0 million, respectively. During the third quarter of 2018, SHUSA redeemed all of its outstanding preferred stock. Accordingly, during 2020 and 2019, the Company did not pay dividends to preferred shareholders. During 2018, the Company paid cash dividends to preferred shareholders of $11.0 million. 

In June 2020, the Federal Reserve Board also announced an interim capital preservation policy (the &#8220;Interim Policy&#8221;), to be applied in the third quarter of 2020, which provided that certain large CCAR banks, including SHUSA, cannot pay common stock dividends that exceed the institution&#8217;s average trailing four quarters of net income. The Interim Policy also prohibits these banks from implementing share purchase programs, except to make share repurchases relating to issuances of common stock related to employee stock ownership plans. 

As a result of the Interim Policy, SC and the Company would have been prohibited from paying a dividend or implementing share repurchase programs in the third quarter of 2020; however, in July 2020, SC announced that the Federal Reserve Board had approved certain exceptions to the Interim Policy and that SC was permitted to pay a dividend and continue its share repurchase program during the third quarter of 2020. In August 2020,SC announced that it had substantially exhausted the amount of shares it was permitted to repurchase under the exception to the Interim Policy and that SC expected to repurchase an immaterial number of shares remaining under the exception approval. 

Subsequently, the Federal Reserve Board extended the Interim Policy through the first quarter of 2021. As a result of the extension of the Interim Policy, SC and the Company were prohibited from paying a dividend in fourth quarter of 2020 and, unless the Company obtains an exception from the Federal Reserve Board, will be prohibited from paying a dividend in the first quarter of 2021. Further, consistent with the Interim Policy, SC may continue to repurchase a number of shares of SC&#8217;s common stock equal to the amount of share issuances related to SC&#8217;s employee compensation through the first quarter of 2021. 

It is uncertain whether the Federal Reserve will extend the Interim Policy in its present form beyond the first quarter of 2021. If it does so, the foregoing restrictions on dividends and share repurchases would continue. 

Federal Reserve Regulation 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank generally has been required to maintain a rese rve against its transaction accounts (primarily interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing checking accounts). Because reserves must generally be maintained in cash or in low-interest-bearing accounts, the effect of the reserve requirements is to reduce an institution&#8217;s asset yields. On March 15, 2020 the Federal Reserve reduced reserve requirements to 0%. This change took effect on March 26, 2020. 

FHLB System 

The FHLB system was created in 1932 and consists of 11 regional FHLBs. FHLBs are federally-chartered but privately owned institutions created by Congress. The Federal Housing Finance Agency is an agency of the federal government that is charged with overseeing the FHLBs. Each FHLB is owned by its member institutions. The primary purpose of the FHLBs is to provide funding to their members for making housing loans as well as for affordable housing and community development lending. FHLBs are generally able to make advances to their member institutions at interest rates that are lower than could otherwise be obtained by such institutions. As a member, the Bank is required to make minimum investments in FHLB stock based on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. The Bank is a member of and held investments in the FHLB of Pittsburgh which totaled $77.0 million as of December 31, 2020, compared to $316.4 million at December 31, 2019. The Bank utilizes advances from the FHLB to fund balance sheet growth, provide liquidity and for asset and liability management purposes. The Bank had access to advances with the FHLB of up to $15.3 billion at December 31, 2020, and had outstanding advances of $1.2 billion. The level of borrowing capacity the Bank has with the FHLB of Pittsburgh is contingent upon the level of qualified collateral the Bank holds at a given time. 

The Bank received $17.7 million and $16.6 million in dividends on its stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

Several federal laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, and the USA Patriot Act require all financial institutions to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The USA Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S., imposed compliance and due diligence obligations, created criminal penalties, compelled the production of documents located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the U.S., and clarified the safe harbor from civil liability to clients. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations that further clarify the USA Patriot Act&#8217;s requirements and provide more specific guidance on their application. 

Financial Privacy 

Under the GLBA, financial institutions are required to disclose to their retail customers their policies and practices with respect to sharing nonpublic customer information with their affiliates and non-affiliates, how they maintain customer confidentiality, and how they secure customer information. Customers are required under the GLBA to be provided with the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of information sharing with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions. 

Environmental Laws 

Environmentally-related hazards are a source of high risk and potentially significant liability for financial institutions related to their loans. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution&#8217;s borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution&#8217;s loans to such borrowers, high environmental cleanup costs to the borrower affecting its ability to repay its loans, the subordination of any lien in favor of the institution to a state or federal lien securing clean-up costs, and liability to the institution for cleanup costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property or becomes involved in the management of the borrower. To minimize this risk, the Bank may require an environmental examination of, and reports with respect to, the property of any borrower or prospective borrower if circumstances affecting the property indicate a potential for contamination, taking into consideration the potential loss to the institution in relation to the burdens to the borrower. Such examination must be performed by an engineering firm experienced in environmental risk studies and acceptable to the institution, and the costs of such examinations and reports are the responsibility of the borrower. These costs may be substantial and may deter a prospective borrower from entering into a loan transaction with the Bank. The Company is not aware of any borrower which is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean-up proceeding or any other environmental matter that is likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of SHUSA or its subsidiaries. 

Securities and Investment Regulation 

The Company conducts its securities and investment business activities through its subsidiaries SIS and SSLLC. SIS and SSLLC are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and members of FINRA. SIS&#8217;s activities include investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed income securities. SIS, SSLLC and SAM are also registered investment advisers with the SEC, and BSI conducts certain securities transactions exempt from SEC registration on behalf of its clients. 

Written Agreements and Regulatory Actions 

See the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A and Note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a description of current regulatory actions. 

Corporate Information 

All reports filed electronically by the Company with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Our filings are also accessible through our website at https://www.santanderus.com/us/investorshareholderrelations. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated herein and is provided for the information of the reader and are not intended to be active links. 

