Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to JPMorgan Chase & Co., with titles, headers, footers, and other metadata removed:

```
```
Friday will be a paid company holiday for employees at Nike. The same goes for workers at Twitter, Target,
General Motors, the National Football League and a variety of other businesses. JPMorgan Chase, Capital
One and other banks will close branches early.                          

Many lenders are getting stricter about offering the credit lines, known as Helocs. Both JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. have temporarily stopped accepting new Heloc applications, and other lenders
have tightened standards.                                               

But in April, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo said they would temporarily stop accepting new Heloc applications.
JPMorgan cited high unemployment rates and projections that housing prices would fall.

Financial institutions from American Express Co. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. are offering delayed payments,
fee waivers and other credit relief to consumers as more than 36 million Americans filed for unemployment
claims in the weeks after many states locked down nonessential businesses to curb the spread of the
coronavirus.                                                            

JPMorgan is providing payment relief for hundreds of thousands of consumer accounts, including offering
90-day grace periods for mortgage, auto and car payments, as well as waiving or refunding certain fees.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. has taken on two bitcoin exchanges, Coinbase Inc. and Gemini Trust Co., as banking
customers, according to people familiar with the matter, the first time the bank has accepted clients from the
cryptocurrency industry.                                                

The bank is primarily providing cash-management services to the firms and handling dollar-based
transactions for the exchanges' U.S.-based customers, according to the people. It will process wire transfers,
and deposits and withdrawals through the Automated Clearing House network, an electronic funds-transfer
system.                                                                 

JPMorgan's services don't extend to any bitcoin or cryptocurrency-based transactions. The firms handle
those themselves.                                                       

JPMorgan took a notable step in extending services to businesses built around bitcoin. Such businesses
have for years been blocked by banks from opening up accounts. Bankers were concerned with exposing
themselves to bitcoin's shadier uses, such as money laundering, and the added glare from regulators.

For JPMorgan, the new relationship with Coinbase and Gemini is the latest step in what has been a long and
sometimes acrimonious relationship with digital money. Chief Executive James Dimon has been a high-profile
critic of bitcoin in the past. But the bank itself experimented extensively with blockchain, bitcoin's underlying
technology, and more recently implemented its own digital currency, JPM Coin, for digital payments among
its clients.                                                            

March 9 was supposed to be the start of a new routine for JPMorgan Chase & Co. employees. With
coronavirus spreading, the bank had told the staff in its stock-trading operation to head to three separate sites
around New York City.                                                   
Hours before the workday began, with global markets plunging, technology at the sites wasn't ready.
JPMorgan top brass reversed the order and told many traders to report for duty, as usual, to the firm's
Manhattan headquarters, employees said.                                 
An employee who wasn't feeling well came to the office. JPMorgan traded more shares that Monday than any
day in the bank's history. The sick employee turned out to have Covid-19, and over the past three weeks,
about 20 employees on a single floor at the bank's headquarters have tested positive for the virus, with
another 65 quarantined as a result.                                     

For JPMorgan, the consequences of keeping employees in the office have been swift and painful. The
outbreak has rattled rank-and-file employees, who said they feel the bank took a gamble with their health to
protect a prized business.                                              

A JPMorgan spokesman said that more than 80% of the firm's traders are working remotely and those in the
office have been spaced more than 6 feet apart. Employees deemed at risk of infection have been sent
home. Managers were instructed to tell employees they are free to work remotely, the spokesman said.
"We recognize how stressful this is for those employees on the front lines who are supporting global
markets," a spokesman said.                                             

JPMorgan's coronavirus outbreak is concentrated on the fifth floor of the bank's Madison Avenue
headquarters, a tight web of desks for those who buy and sell stocks and pitch clients on trades.

By then, companies that had been merely advising employees to stay home were now making it mandatory.
All the while, global markets were haywire. That Thursday, March 12, the S&P 500 posted one of its biggest
one-day drops in history. Friday brought one of its largest-ever gains. JPMorgan's trading volume was hitting
records. A group focused on volatility trading made about $1.5 billion in revenue as of late March, employees
said.                                                                   

On March 20, Gov. Andrew Cuomo ordered all nonessential businesses to close. That weekend, JPMorgan
threw out its original plans to separate people and said most would work from home.
```
```