```
HONG KONG -- China's central bank gave American Express Co. the green light to start operating a
card-clearing network that will process transactions in yuan, giving the U.S. card company greater access to
the country's spenders.                                                 
On Saturday, Amex said it is the first foreign payment network to be licensed to clear domestic transactions in
mainland China. The New York-based company has a Chinese joint venture called Express Co. that will run
the network and process local-currency payments made with Amex-branded cards. The network is expected
to go live later this year.                                             
Stephen Squeri, Amex's chairman and chief executive, said the approval from the People's Bank of China
was an "important step forward" in the company's long-term growth strategy. Amex, like many other U.S.
financial giants, has long coveted business from China's numerous consumers and merchants and its
executives previously told analysts the company was aiming to enter the market this year.
China has long restricted foreign companies' access to its fast-growing financial sector. In its recent trade
deal with the U.S., Beijing agreed to remove barriers and help U.S. banks, credit-card companies and other
financial-services providers to enter its markets and do more business within its borders.
In November 2018, China's central bank allowed Amex to form a 50-50 joint venture with Chinese
financial-technology services firm LianLian DigiTech Co. and build the payment network. In January, the
PBOC said it had accepted Amex's application for a license to start operating the network; that has now been
approved.                                                               
Express Co, a 50-50 joint venture between Amex and LianLian, plans to join with banks in China to issue
Amex-branded cards that can be used for transactions in yuan, the country's currency.

Currently, people in China holding Amex cards can only use the Amex network for foreign-currency payments
outside of the country or on overseas websites. Foreign visitors to the country can also use Amex cards at
some hotels, restaurants and other venues. The company hasn't disclosed how many cards it has in China,
where the dominant network for clearing local-currency transactions is operated by state-backed China
UnionPay Co.                                                            

Amex began working with LianLian Group back in 2012, providing technology to power a digital wallet that
consumers could use to pay bills and purchase products. The U.S. firm also previously made an investment
in one of LianLian's payment companies.                                 
LianLian Group, which was founded in 2004, is a relatively small player in China's nearly 60 trillion yuan ($8.4
trillion) third-party mobile payments industry, where WeChat Pay and Ant Financial Services Group's Alipay
have more than a 90% combined market share. LianLian also handles cross-border payments for Chinese
exporters that sell goods on marketplaces including Amazon and eBay.    
```