 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Changes from previous risk factor disclosures: 

The following updates and restates the third highlighted topic under "Operational Risks" within Item 1A of FHN's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which appeared on page 30 of that report. 

An information technology security (cybersecurity) breach or other incident can cause significant damage, and can be difficult to detect even after it occurs. Among other things, that damage can occur due to outright theft, loss or extortion of our funds or our clients&#8217; funds, fraud or identity theft perpetrated on clients, loss of confidential or proprietary information, business disruption, or adverse publicity associated with a breach or incident and its potential effects. Perpetrators potentially can be associates, clients, and certain vendors, all of whom legitimately have access to some portion of our systems, as well as outsiders with no legitimate access. For example, in April 2021 we experienced a data security incident affecting a small number of client accounts. An unauthorized party gained access to certain client login credentials from an unknown source. Using those credentials and exploiting a vulnerability in third-party security software, the unauthorized party was able to fraudulently obtain funds from client accounts. Although our monetary loss from that incident was minimal, the incident illustrates that we are at risk for vulnerabilities not fully within our control, in this case related to third-party software and client credentials. 

Because of the potential for very serious consequences associated with these risks, our electronic systems and their upgrades need to address internal and external security concerns to a high degree, and our systems must comply with applicable banking and other regulations pertaining to bank safety and client protection. Although many of our defenses are systemic and highly technical, others are much older and more basic. For example, periodically we train all our associates to recognize red flags associated with fraud, theft, and other electronic crimes, and we educate our clients as well through regular and episodic security-oriented communications. We expect our systems and regulatory requirements to continue to evolve as technology and criminal techniques also continue to evolve. 

