Items 2. and 3. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosuresabout Market Risk The following is management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation)for the third quarter of 2020. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report aswell as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Investors also should read the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.”THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General The Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families andindividuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate & Institutional Services(C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the AssetManagement business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “its,” or similar terms mean the Corporationand its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events The COVID-19 global pandemic continued to present health and economic challenges on an unprecedented scale during the third quarter of 2020. During this time,Northern Trust continued to focus on the health and well-being of its workforce, meeting its clients’ needs and supporting its communities. Although planning isunderway to return to the office when conditions permit, the vast majority of staff is expected to continue to work remotely for some time to come.Workforce As governments have begun implementing plans to reopen their respective jurisdictions, Northern Trust has begun its return-to-office (RTO) phase under theoversight of its COVID Executive Committee composed of senior leadership across various functions. Plans for RTO have been developed on a location-bylocation basis based on business unit needs. Northern Trust continues to consider site readiness, transportation options, technology capabilities, and workforcealignment, and plans for the return of a small portion of each office’s population in the initial RTO phase to allow for optimal social distancing. To ensure thehealth and well-being of Northern Trust’s workforce, clients and visitors, several social distancing elements and other protective measures, such as temperaturescreenings, where allowable by law, distribution of personal protective equipment, and workforce self-certification, have been implemented. Several officescontinued to return portions of their workforce in the third quarter of 2020. Client Service Northern Trust has offered assistance to its clients affected by the COVID-19 pandemic by lending under a government lending program and providing paymentdeferrals. The Corporation continues to assess developments in government actions meant to support the economy, as further discussed below.U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program During the second quarter of 2020, Northern Trust became a lender under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), which is administered by the U.S. SmallBusiness Administration (SBA), an agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which works with financial institutions in providing loans to small businesses.The PPP, which is meant to aid small businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic, was created under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security(CARES) Act, which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. In the second quarter of 2020, the Paycheck Protection Program Flexibility Act was enacted toprovide updates to the PPP. As of September 30, 2020, Northern Trust had funded loans totaling $215.3 million under the PPP. The Corporation accounts for PPP loans as loan receivables andamounts are disclosed in Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).The original timeframe for PPP lending expired on June 30, 2020, but Congress acted on June 30, 2020 to provide a 5-week extension for PPP lending to allowsmall businesses additional time to apply for the remaining PPP funds allocated by Congress in connection with the CARES Act. Northern Trust continued to lendunder the PPP through the new August 8, 2020 deadline. 3 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events (continued) Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief Due to the economic environment arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been two forms of relief provided to lenders exempting certain loanmodifications which would otherwise be classified as TDRs from such classification. The first of these forms of relief is provided by certain interagency guidancefrom various banking regulators, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Interagency Guidance).The other is provided under section 4013 of the CARES Act. Northern Trust has elected to apply each of these forms of relief, when applicable, in providingborrowers with qualifying loan modifications, including payment deferrals, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For further information on TDRs, please referto Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Community Support Small Business Support From April 15, 2020 through September 30, 2020, Northern Trust provided $103.0 million in low-cost funding to assist Community Development FinancialInstitutions (CDFIs), which are instrumental in providing loans to small businesses and non-profit organizations under the PPP. The funding helps meet urgentdemand among small businesses and non-profit groups by providing flexible terms and low rates. CDFIs provide loans, investments, financial services andtechnical assistance to underserved populations and communities. This funding to CDFIs, which is reported in Debt Securities Held to Maturity on the consolidatedbalance sheets, is separate and distinct from the $215.3 million in PPP funds that the Corporation has lent to its own small business clients. New Corporate Philanthropic Strategy Northern Trust announced on June 15, 2020 that it pledged $20.0 million over the next 5 years as a part of its new corporate philanthropic strategy. The goal of thenew strategy, which launched on September 11, 2020, is to reduce the economic opportunity gap. Northern Trust is committed to creating more equitableopportunities to achieve long-term financial success for those who face unfair hurdles because of their race, ethnicity, gender, geography or socio-economicconditions. Additional COVID-19 economic and market-related impacts to the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are discussed throughout this Form10-Q. Overview of Financial Results Net income per diluted common share decreased in the current quarter to $1.32 from $1.69 in the third quarter of 2019. Net income decreased $90.1 million, or23%, to $294.5 million in the current quarter from $384.6 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 10.5% in the currentquarter and 14.9% in the prior-year quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 0.83% in the current quarter as compared to 1.31% in the prior-yearquarter. Revenue decreased $52.8 million, or 3%, to $1.49 billion in the current quarter from $1.54 billion in the prior-year quarter. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $28.3 million, or 3%, from $975.5 million in the prior-year quarter to $1.00 billion in the current quarter,primarily due to new business, favorable currency translation and favorable markets, partially offset by higher money market mutual fund waivers.Other noninterest income increased $8.0 million, or 6%, from $144.7 million in the prior-year quarter to $152.7 million in the current quarter, primarily reflectinghigher other operating income and foreign exchange trading income, partially offset by lower security commissions and trading income. Net interest income decreased $89.1 million, or 21%, to $328.6 million in the current quarter as compared to $417.7 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily dueto a lower net interest margin, partially offset by an increase in average earning assets. There was a $0.5 million provision for credit losses in the current quarter, as compared to a credit provision of $7.0 million in the prior-year quarter. The currentquarter provision was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar riskcharacteristics. The increase in the collective basis reserve was driven by projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic andrelated market and economic impacts, with increases in the private client, commercial real estate, and residential real estate portfolios, partially offset by a decreasein the commercial and institutional portfolio. The overall increase in the reserve on a collective basis was partially offset by a decrease in the reserve associatedwith loans evaluated on an individual basis. The Corporation adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on FinancialInstruments” (ASU 2016-13) on January 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediaterecognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13,please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements(unaudited). 4 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Overview of Financial Results (continued) Noninterest expense increased $58.4 million, or 6%, from $1.04 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.09 billion in the current quarter, primarily attributable tohigher other operating expense, equipment and software expense, employee benefits expense, and compensation expense, partially offset by lower outside services.The increase in other operating expense was primarily due to a $43.4 million charge related to a corporate action processing error. The provision for income taxes in the current quarter totaled $95.4 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%. The provision for income taxes in the prioryear quarter totaled $124.0 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.4%. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, investment and other servicing fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions;securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthlyor quarterly basis in arrears. Low interest rate environments have historically had a negative impact on fees earned on certain products. Beginning in the secondquarter of 2020, the Corporation elected to waive a portion of certain fees associated with money market mutual funds. These fee waivers, which are expected toincrease in a continued low interest rate environment in which the yields in certain funds remain insufficient to pay the stated fees associated with such funds, willadversely impact trust, investment and other servicing fees within the C&IS and Wealth Management reporting segments.


Net Interest Income Net interest income is defined as the total of interest income and amortized fees on earning assets, less interest expense on deposits and borrowed funds, adjustedfor the impact of interest-related hedging activity. Earning assets — including federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreements to resell, interest-bearingdue from banks and interest-bearing deposits with banks, Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits and other, securities, and loans and leases — arefinanced by a large base of interest-bearing funds that include client deposits, short-term borrowings, senior notes and long-term debt. Earning assets are alsofunded by noninterest-related funds, which include demand deposits and stockholders’ equity. Net interest income is subject to variations in the level and mix ofearning assets and interest-bearing funds and their relative sensitivity to interest rates. In addition, the levels of nonaccruing assets and client compensating depositbalances used to pay for services impact net interest income. Net interest margin is the difference between what we earn on our assets and what we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. The direction and level ofinterest rates are important factors in our earnings. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized net interest income by average interest-earning assets.Net interest income stated on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that facilitates theanalysis of asset yields. Management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest margins for comparative purposes. When adjusted toan FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable, and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Areconciliation of net interest income on a GAAP basis to net interest income on an FTE basis is provided on page 35. 9 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) The following tables present an analysis of average balances and interest rates affecting net interest income and an analysis of net interest income changesNet interest income, stated on a FTE basis, decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a lower net interest margin, partially offset by an increase inaverage earning assets. Average earning assets increased primarily due to higher levels of short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks, securities, and loans.Funding of the balance sheet reflected higher levels of client deposits. The net interest margin on an FTE basis decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower interest rates and a balance sheet mix shift. Low levels ofmarket interest rates are expected to continue to impact our net interest income. Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits and other averaged $31.6 billion and increased $14.1 billion, or 80%, from $17.5 billion in the prior-year quarter,resulting from significant deposit inflows. The higher level of client deposits were primarily placed with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and in thesecurities portfolio. Average securities were $58.1 billion and increased $8.1 billion, or 16%, from $50.0 billion, in the prior-year quarter and include certaincommunity development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and Federal Reserve stock of $740.7 million, $177.3 million and $69.7 million,respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Loans and leases averaged $33.1 billion and increased $2.2 billion, or 7%, from $30.9 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher levels of privateclient, commercial and institutional, and commercial real estate loans. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $10.0 billion and increased $1.1 billion, or13%, from $8.9 billion for the prior-year quarter. Private client loans averaged $11.7 billion and increased $1.3 billion, or 13%, from $10.4 billion for the prioryear quarter. Commercial real estate loans averaged $3.3 billion and increased $0.5 billion, or 17%, from $2.8 billion for the prior-year quarter. Residential realestate loans averaged $6.1 billion in the current and prior-year quarter. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Total interest-bearing deposits increased $15.3 billion, or 21%, to an average of $87.6 billion in thecurrent quarter from $72.3 billion in the prior-year quarter. Other interest-bearing funds decreased $1.0 billion, or 8%, to an average of $11.8 billion in the currentquarter from $12.8 billion in the prior-year quarter. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies,interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Average net noninterestrelated funds increased $10.2 billion, or 51%, to $30.0 billion in the current quarter from $19.8 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily resulting from higherlevels of demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. Interest expense for interest-bearing deposits in the current quarter was driven by low and negative interest rates for non-U.S. offices interest-bearing deposits andlow interest rates on domestic interest-bearing deposits. Average non-U.S. offices interest-bearing deposits comprised 71% of total average interest-bearingdeposits for the three months ended September 30, 2020. 11 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Provision for Credit Losses The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13) onJanuary 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediate recognition of estimated creditlosses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — RecentAccounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). There was a $0.5 million provision for credit losses in the current quarter, as compared to a credit provision of $7.0 million in the prior-year quarter. The provisionin the current quarter was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar riskcharacteristics. The increase in the collective basis reserve was driven by projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic andrelated market and economic impacts, with increases in the private client, commercial real estate, and residential real estate portfolios, partially offset by a decreasein the commercial and institutional portfolio. The overall increase in the reserve on a collective basis was partially offset by a decrease in the reserve associatedwith loans evaluated on an individual basis. The credit provision in the prior-year quarter was primarily driven by a decrease in the specific allowance attributableto the residential real estate portfolio and a slight decrease in the inherent allowance under the previous “incurred loss” model. Net recoveries in the current quarter were $0.4 million, resulting from charge-offs of $0.8 million and recoveries of $1.2 million. The prior-year quarter included$0.6 million of net recoveries, reflecting $1.1 million of charge-offs and $1.7 million of recoveries. Nonaccrual assets of $98.9 million decreased $17.4 million, or15%, from $116.3 million at the end of the prior-year quarter.Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $95.4 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%, compared to $124.0 million inthe prior-year quarter, representing an effective tax rate of 24.4%. The provision for income taxes decreased primarily due to decreased income before income taxes. NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Financial Results Net income per diluted common share decreased in the current period to $4.34 from $4.92 in the comparable prior-year period. Net income decreased $152.7million, or 14%, to $968.4 million in the current period from $1.12 billion in the prior-year period. Annualized return on average common equity was 12.0% in thecurrent period and 14.9% in the prior-year period. The annualized return on average assets was 0.96% in the current period compared to 1.28% in the prior-yearperiod. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 increased $53.5 million, or 1%, from $4.53 billion in the prior-year period to $4.58 billion in the currentperiod. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $109.0 million, or 4%, from $2.86 billion in the prior-year period to $2.97 billion in the current period,primarily driven by new business and favorable markets. Other noninterest income increased $92.8 million, or 23%, from $408.4 million in the prior-year period to $501.2 million in the current period, primarily driven byincreased foreign exchange trading income, other operating income, and security commissions and trading income. Net interest income decreased $148.3 million, or 12%, to $1.11 billion in the current period from $1.26 billion in the prior-year period, primarily due to a lower netinterest margin, partially offset by an increase in average earning assets. There was a $127.5 million provision for credit losses in the current period, as compared to a credit provision of $13.5 million in the prior-year period.The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13) onJanuary 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediate recognition of estimated creditlosses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the Corporation recorded a $13.7 million increase in theallowance for credit losses with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $10.1 million, net of income taxes. For moreinformation on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided inItem 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Noninterest expense increased $126.0 million, or 4%, from $3.07 billion in the prior-year period to $3.20 billion in the current period, primarily attributable tohigher equipment and software expense, other operating expense, compensation expense, employee benefits expense and occupancy expense, partially offset bylower outside services expense. The increase in other operating expense was primarily due to a $43.4 million charge related to a corporate action processing error.13 NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Overview of Financial Results (continued) The provision for income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 totaled $285.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22.8%. The provisionfor income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 totaled $346.6 million, representing an effective tax rate of 23.6%.Net interest income, stated on an FTE basis, decreased from the prior-year period, primarily due to a lower net interest margin, partially offset by an increase inaverage earning assets. Average earning assets increased primarily due to higher levels of short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks, securities, and loans.Funding of the balance sheet reflected higher levels of client deposits. The increase in average client deposit balance resulted from the large inflows experienced atthe end of the first quarter caused by client reaction to current economic and market conditions. Average non-U.S. offices interest-bearing deposits comprised 71%of total average interest-bearing deposits for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The net interest margin on an FTE basis decreased from the prior-year period, primarily due to lower interest rates. Low levels of market interest rates are expectedto continue to impact our net interest income. Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits and other averaged $27.3 billion and increased $8.3 billion, or 44%, from $19.0 billion in the prior-year period,resulting from significant deposit inflows. The higher level of client deposits were primarily placed with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and in thesecurities portfolio. Average securities were $54.3 billion and increased $4.1 billion, or 8%, from $50.2 billion in the prior-year period and include certaincommunity development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and Federal Reserve stock of $741.1 million, $211.0 million and $61.4 million,respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Loans and leases averaged $33.6 billion and increased $2.5 billion, or 8%, from $31.1 billion in the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher levels ofcommercial and institutional, private client, and commercial real estate loans, partially offset by lower levels of residential real estate loans. Commercial andinstitutional loans averaged $10.5 billion and increased $1.5 billion, or 18%, from $9.0 billion for the prior-year period. Private client loans averaged $11.4 billionand increased $720.1 million, or 7%, from $10.7 billion for the prior-year period. Commercial real estate loans averaged $3.2 billion and increased $293.9 million,or 10%, from $2.9 billion for the prior-year period. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.1 billion and decreased $238.0 million, or 4%, from $6.4 billion forthe prior-year period. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Total interest-bearing deposits increased $11.6 billion, or 16%, to an average of $84.1 billion in thecurrent period from $72.5 billion in the prior-year period. Other interest-bearing funds decreased $727.0 million, or 5%, to an average of $12.6 billion in thecurrent period from $13.3 billion in the prior-year period. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements andstrategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Average netnoninterest-related funds increased $3.6 billion, or 17%, to $25.0 billion in the current period from $21.4 billion in the prior-year period primarily resulting fromhigher levels of demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits and other liabilities, partially offset by other assets.Provision for Credit Losses The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13) onJanuary 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediate recognition of estimated creditlosses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the Corporation recorded a $13.7 million increase in theallowance for credit losses with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $10.1 million, net of income taxes. For moreinformation on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided inItem 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The provision for credit losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $127.5 million primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on acollective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolio and current and projected economic conditions, both resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic andrelated market and economic impacts, with the largest increases in the commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. The provision for creditlosses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was a credit provision of $13.5 million primarily driven by a decrease in the allowance for the residential realestate portfolio driven by reductions in outstanding loans and improved credit quality, partially offset by increases for the private client portfolio driven by lowercredit quality, which resulted in a net decrease in the inherent allowance. Net recoveries in the current-year period totaled $2.3 million resulting from $3.0 million of charge-offs and $5.3 million of recoveries, compared to net recoveriesof $3.0 million in the prior-year period resulting from $2.7 million of charge-offs and $5.7 million of recoveries. Residential real estate, commercial and institutional, and commercial real estate loans accounted for 65%, 31%, and 4%, respectively, of total nonaccrual loans andleases at September 30, 2020. Residential real estate, commercial and institutional, commercial real estate and non-U.S. loans accounted for 86%, 10%, 3%, and1%, respectively, of total nonaccrual loans and leases at September 30, 2019. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “AssetQuality” section beginning on page 26.Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $285.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22.8%, compared to $346.6 million forthe nine months ended September 30, 2019, representing an effective tax rate of 23.6%. The provision for income taxes decreased primarily due to decreased income before income taxes, a change in the earnings mix in tax jurisdictions in which theCorporation operates, and additional benefits related to share-based compensation arrangements and tax-exempt income, partially offset by prior-year-periodincome tax benefits recorded as a result of the Corporation’s international organizational restructuring. REPORTING SEGMENTS Northern Trust is organized around its two client-focused reporting segments: C&IS and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are providedto C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other supportfunctions are allocated fully to C&IS and Wealth Management. Reporting segment financial information, presented on an internal management-reporting basis, is determined by accounting systems used to allocate revenue andexpense to each segment, and incorporates processes for allocating assets, liabilities, equity and the applicable interest income and expense utilizing a fundstransfer pricing (FTP) methodology. Under the methodology, assets and liabilities receive a funding charge or credit that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk,and other product characteristics on an instrument level. Revenues, expenses and average assets are allocated to C&IS and Wealth Management, with the exception of non-recurring activities such as certain costsassociated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments not directly attributable to a specific reporting segment.Reporting segment results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made. The results are also subject to refinements in revenue and expenseallocation methodologies, which are typically reflected on a prospective basis. Corporate & Institutional Services (continued) C&IS Noninterest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $31.0 million, or 5%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher trust,investment and other servicing fees. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $146.0 million, or 7%, from the prior-yearperiod, primarily reflecting higher trust, investment and other servicing fees, foreign exchange trading income, and other noninterest income.C&IS Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of C&IS trust, investment, and other servicing fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” sections of the MD&A.C&IS Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, foreign exchange trading income increased $39.3 million, or 23%, from the prior-year period, primarily due toincreased market volatility. C&IS Other Noninterest Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, other noninterest income increased $25.7 million, or 18%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to securitycommissions and trading income. C&IS Net Interest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, net interest income stated on an FTE basis decreased $90.0 million, or 39%, from the prior-year quarter and decreased$177.7 million, or 26%, from the prior-year period for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease for the three and nine months endedSeptember 30, 2020 primarily reflected a lower net interest margin driven by declining short-term interest rates, partially offset by higher deposit balances and loanvolumes. Average earning assets increased $22.8 billion to $99.7 billion in the current quarter from $76.9 billion in the prior-year quarter and increased $13.3billion to $92.5 billion in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 from $79.2 billion in the prior-year period. The earning assets and funding sources inC&IS for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 consisted primarily of intercompany assets and of loans and non-U.S. custody-related interestbearing deposits, respectively. C&IS Provision for Credit Losses On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted ASU 2016-13. For more information on the adoption, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncementsto the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The C&IS provision for credit losses for the three andnine months ended September 30, 2020, was a credit provision of $19.2 million and a provision of $35.3 million, respectively, compared with a provision under theprevious “incurred loss” model of $4.8 million and $1.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. The credit provision for the three months ended September 30, 2020 reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by less severeprojected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts specifically impacting the commercialand institutional portfolio, with the largest decrease in the commercial and institutional portfolio. The provision for the nine months ended September 30, 2020reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolio and projected economic conditions resulting from theongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts on the commercial and institutional portfolio. C&IS Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, noninterest expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations forproduct and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $58.1 million, or 9%, from the prior-year quarter,primarily due to higher expense allocations, including a $43.4 million charge related to a corporate action processing error, higher compensation expense, outsideservices expense, employee benefits expense and equipment and software expense, partially offset by lower business promotion expense due to reduced businesstravel. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest expense increased $91.7 million, or 5%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher expenseallocations, including higher charges related to account servicing activities in the current period, compensation expense, employee benefit expense, and equipmentand software expense, partially offset by lower business promotion expense due to reduced business travel and lower staff-related expenses. 21 REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Wealth Management Wealth Management Net Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, net income decreased $19.4 million, or 9%, from the prior-year quarter primarily due to an increase in the provision forcredit losses, partially offset by a lower provision for income taxes and higher noninterest income. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net incomedecreased $25.5 million, or 4%, from the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in the provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense, partiallyoffset by higher net interest income, noninterest income, and a lower provision for income taxes. Wealth Management Noninterest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $3.9 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher trust, investment andother servicing fees. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $51.9 million, or 4%, from the prior-year period primarilyreflecting higher trust, investment and other servicing fees and other noninterest income. Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Wealth Management trust, investment, and other servicing fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” sections of theMD&A. Wealth Management Other Noninterest Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, other noninterest income increased $27.8 million, or 29%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to an increasein security commissions and trading income. Wealth Management Net Interest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, net interest income stated on an FTE basis increased $1.2 million, or 1%, from the prior-year quarter and increased$30.0 million, or 5%, from the prior-year period for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase for the three and nine months ended September 30,2020 primarily reflected higher net interest allocation from Treasury and Other and higher deposit and loan balances, partially offset by lower interest rates.Average earning assets increased $1.6 billion to $29.7 billion in the current quarter from $28.1 billion in the prior-year quarter and increased $1.5 billion to $29.3billion in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 from $27.8 billion in the prior-year period. Earning assets and funding sources for the three and ninemonths ended September 30, 2020 were primarily comprised of loans and domestic interest-bearing deposits, respectively. Wealth Management Provision for Credit Losses On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted ASU 2016-13. For more information on the adoption, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncementsto the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The Wealth Management provision for credit losseswas $19.7 million and $92.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, and a credit provision under the previous “incurredloss” model of $11.8 million and $14.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. The provision for the three months ended September 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by projected economicconditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts, primarily impacting the private client and commercial realestate portfolios. The provision for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven bydowngrades in the portfolio and projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts,primarily impacting the commercial real estate, commercial and institutional, and private client portfolios. Wealth Management Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended September 30, 2020, noninterest expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations forproduct and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, remained relatively unchanged from the prior-year quarter,primarily reflecting higher expense allocations and employee benefit expense partially offset by lower compensation expense and lower business promotionexpense due to reduced business travel. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest expense increased $14.8 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher expenseallocations and employee benefits, partially offset by lower business promotion expense due to reduced business travel, as well as various other operating expensesand lower compensation expense. 22 REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Treasury and Other Treasury and Other Noninterest Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $3.9 million from the prior-year period. Noninterest income increased for the ninemonths ended September 30, 2020 due to lower expenses for existing swap agreements related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares. Treasury and Other Noninterest Expense For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, noninterest expense increased $19.5 million from the prior-year period, primarily due to costs associated withexecuting workplace real estate strategies and higher compensation expense related to a one-time supplemental payment to employees in response to the COVID19 pandemic. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES For a description of Northern Trust’s significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. The use of estimates and assumptions isrequired in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and actual results could differ from those estimates. The U.S. Securities and ExchangeCommission (SEC) has issued guidance relating to the disclosure of critical accounting estimates. Critical accounting estimates are those that require managementto make subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Changes that may berequired in the underlying assumptions or estimates in these areas could have a material impact on Northern Trust’s future financial condition and results ofoperations. For Northern Trust, accounting estimates that are viewed as critical are those relating to the allowance for credit losses and pension plan accounting. Managementhas discussed the development and selection of each critical accounting estimate with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. For a description of NorthernTrust’s estimate related to pension plan accounting, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year endedDecember 31, 2019. For a description of Northern Trust’s estimate related to the allowance for credit losses, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section inthe Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent AccountingPronouncements and Note 7 — Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements(unaudited). RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS In January 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2020-01, “Investments—Equity Securities (Topic 321), Investments—EquityMethod and Joint Ventures (Topic 323), and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Clarifying the Interactions between Topic 321, Topic 323, and Topic 815”(ASU 2020-01). ASU 2020-01 addresses two accounting issues: (1) application of the measurement alternative under Topic 321 in correlation with the transitioninto and out of the equity method under Topic 323 and (2) the measurement of certain forward contracts and purchased options to acquire equity securities. ASU2020-01 clarifies that an entity applying the measurement alternative under Topic 321 that must transition to the equity method under Topic 323 because of anobservable transaction will remeasure its investment immediately before transition, whereas an entity applying the equity method under Topic 323 that musttransition to Topic 321 because of an observable transaction will remeasure its investment immediately after transition. ASU 2020-01 also clarifies that certainforward contracts or purchased call options to acquire equity securities generally will be measured using the fair value principles of Topic 321 before settlement orexercise. ASU 2020-01 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020, although early adoption is permitted. ASU 2020-01 is notexpected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, “Debt—Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity” (ASU 2020-06). ASU2020-06 simplifies the convertible instrument accounting framework through the elimination of the beneficial conversion and cash conversion accounting modelsused to account for convertible debt and convertible preferred stock. ASU 2020-06 also amends the accounting for certain contracts in an entity’s own equity thatare currently accounted for as derivatives because of specific settlement provisions in Accounting Standards Codification 815—Derivatives and Hedging. Inaddition, ASU 2020-06 modifies how particular convertible instruments and certain contracts that may be settled in cash or shares impact the diluted earnings pershare computation. ASU 2020-06 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2021, although early adoption is permitted. ASU 2020-06 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk and trading risk. Interest rate risk is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in netinterest income and the market value of equity. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to causechanges in the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE)sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with along-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a Value-at-Risk(VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following 32 MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year endedDecember 31, 2019. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rateswaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e.,change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks torates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e.,basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. Theseassumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity givenuncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similarterms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a moreconservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analyticssystem that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgageanalytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availabilityof historical data and current pricing strategies or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point upward and 100 basis point downward movements ininterest rates relative to forward rates. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period.FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,”“estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,”and “could.” Forward-looking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results andoutlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; futurepension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; andexpectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectationsof future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based onassumptions about many important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession or depression in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a numberof factors, including, for example, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and governmental and societal responses thereto; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets ingeneral, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respectto which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative toother currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arisingfrom all such changes and volatility; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, particularly asset-backed securities, the liquidity and pricing of whichmay be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cyber-security, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuationof securities, fraud, systems performance or defects, systems interruptions, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust’s success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor;• changes in the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the calculation of alternative interest rate benchmarks;• the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust;• increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatoryemphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital;• changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect NorthernTrust or its clients; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist events andwar, and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” and any negative effects thereof on global economicconditions, global financial markets, and our business and results of operations; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability todeploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements;• Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; 36 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products;• Northern Trust’s success in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise tosupport increasingly complex products and services; • Northern Trust’s success in implementing its expense management initiatives; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns andpayouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, includingcredit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory processes, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’srecorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary;• the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and• other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, including those factorsdescribed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the dateof that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes noobligation to update its forward-looking statements.