 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our business, results of operations, and financial condition have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and governmental and societal responses thereto, have had a severe impact on recent global economic and market conditions, including significant disruption of, and volatility in, financial markets; global supply chain disruptions; and the institution of social distancing and shelter-in-place requirements that have resulted in temporary closures of many businesses, lost revenues, and increased unemployment. 

These conditions have impacted- or are expected in the future to impact-our business, results of operations, and financial condition negatively, including through lower revenue from certain of our fee-based businesses; lower net interest income resulting from lower interest rates; increased provisions for credit losses; impairments on the securities we hold; and decreased demand for certain of our products and services. Additionally, our liquidity and regulatory capital could be adversely impacted by volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets; volatility in foreign exchange rates; deposit flows; and continued client draws on lines of credit. Our business operations may also be disrupted if significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic. 

While governmental authorities have taken unprecedented measures to provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets, and support economic growth, the success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to mitigate fully the negative impact of the ongoing pandemic. Further, some measures, such as a suspension of mortgage and other loan payments and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on our business, while our participation in other measures could result in reputational harm, litigation, or regulatory and government actions, proceedings, or penalties. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. The ongoing pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 

