Items 2. and 3. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The following is management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) for the third quarter of 2024. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Investors also should read the section titled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Certain terms used in this report are defined in the Glossary included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General The Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “its,” or similar terms mean the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Overview of Financial Results Net Income per diluted common share was $2.22 in the current quarter and $1.49 in the third quarter of 2023. Net Income increased $137.1 million to $464.9 million in the current quarter from $327.8 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 15.4% in the current quarter and 11.6% in the prioryear quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 1.26% in the current quarter as compared to 0.93% in the prior-year quarter. Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased $242.0 million, or 14%, to $1.97 billion in the current quarter from $1.73 billion in the prior-year quarter. The current-quarter results include a $68.1 million pre-tax gain related to the sale of an equity investment (after-tax $51.4 million), partially offset by mark-tomarket activity on existing Visa Class B swap agreements, including a $12.8 million expense related to litigation escrow funding, both recorded in Other Operating income. For further detail on the Visa transactions, refer to Note 20—Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $84.7 million, or 8%, from $1.11 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.20 billion in the current quarter, primarily due to favorable markets. Other Noninterest Income increased $51.2 million, or 32%, from $158.4 million in the prior-year quarter to $209.6 million in the current quarter. The increase in Other Noninterest Income in the current quarter was primarily driven by the current quarter gain on the sale of an equity investment, partially offset by mark-to-market activity on existing Visa Class B swap agreements and a decrease in banking and credit-related service fees. Net Interest Income increased $106.1 million, or 23%, to $562.3 million in the current quarter as compared to $456.2 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by higher deposits, securities repositioning, and a higher than average impact of other items, partially offset by a decrease in the loan portfolio. In the current quarter, there was a Provision for Credit Losses of $8.0 million, as compared to a Provision for Credit Losses of $14.0 million in the prior-year quarter. For additional information, refer to the Provision for Credit Losses within the “Third Quarter Consolidated Results of Operations” section. Noninterest Expense increased $81.2 million, or 6%, from $1.28 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.36 billion in the current quarter, primarily due to higher Compensation expense, higher software amortization and software support expense, higher Outside Services expense, and higher Employee Benefits expense, partially offset by a decrease in Other Operating Expense. The Provision for Income Taxes in the current quarter totaled $136.2 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22.7%. The Provision for Income Taxes in the prioryear quarter totaled $106.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided below. Asset Servicing Custody and Fund Administration fees, the largest component of Asset Servicing fees, are driven primarily by values of client assets under custody/administration (AUC/A), transaction volumes and the number of accounts. The asset values used to calculate these fees vary depending on the individual fee arrangements negotiated with each client. Custody fees related to asset values are client-specific and are priced based on month-end market values, quarter-end market values, or the average of month-end market values for the quarter. The fund administration fees that are asset-value-related are priced using month-end, quarter-end, or average daily balances. Investment Management fees are based generally on market values of client AUM throughout the period. Typically, the asset values used to calculate fee revenue are based on a one-month or one-quarter lag. Securities Lending revenue is affected by market values; the demand for securities to be lent, which drives volumes; and the interest rate spread earned on the investment of cash deposited by investment firms as collateral for securities they have borrowed. The Other fee category in Asset Servicing includes such products as investment risk and analytical services, benefit payments, and other services. Revenue from these products is based generally on the volume of services provided or a fixed fee. Custody and Fund Administration fees increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to favorable markets and favorable currency translation. Investment Management fees increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to favorable markets and new business. Wealth Management Wealth Management fee income is calculated primarily based on market values and is impacted by both one-month and one-quarter lagged asset values. Fee income in the regions increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to favorable markets. Global Family Office fee income increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to favorable markets and asset inflows. Market Indices The following tables present selected market indices and the percentage changes year-over-year to provide context regarding equity and fixed income market impacts on the Corporation’s results. Other Operating Income increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by a $68.1 million gain on the sale of an equity investment in the current quarter, partially offset by higher expenses related to existing Visa Class B swap agreements, including $12.8 million related to litigation escrow funding in the current quarter, and a decrease in banking and credit-related service fees. Net Interest Income Net Interest Income is defined as the total of Interest Income and amortized fees on earning assets, less Interest Expense on deposits and borrowed funds, adjusted for the impact of interest-related hedging activity. Earning assets—including Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell, Interest-Bearing Due From and Deposits with Banks, Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits, Securities, Loans, and Other Interest-Earning Assets—are financed by a large base of interest-bearing liabilities that include client deposits, short-term borrowings, Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt. Short-term borrowings include Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. Earning assets are also funded by noninterest-bearing funds, which include demand deposits and stockholders’ equity. Net Interest Income is subject to variations in the level and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing funds and their relative sensitivity to interest rates. In addition, the levels of nonaccruing assets and client compensating deposit balances used to pay for services impact Net Interest Income. Net interest margin is the difference between what we earn on our assets and what we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net Interest Income by average interest-earning assets. Net Interest Income stated on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that facilitates the analysis of asset yields. Management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest margins for comparative purposes. When adjusted to an FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable, and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. A reconciliation of Net Interest Income on a GAAP basis to Net Interest Income on an FTE basis is provided in “Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this MD&A. Net Interest Income, stated on an FTE basis, increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by higher deposits, securities repositioning, and a higher than average impact of other items, partially offset by a decrease in the loan portfolio. Average earning assets increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by an increase in deposits, partially offset by a decrease in borrowing activity. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits averaged $36.1 billion and increased $8.1 billion, or 29%, from $28.0 billion in the prior-year quarter. InterestBearing Due from and Deposits with Banks averaged $4.8 billion and increased $0.5 billion, or 12%, from $4.3 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average Securities were $50.3 billion and decreased $0.1 billion, from $50.4 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average taxable Securities were $44.0 billion in the current quarter and $47.4 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average nontaxable Securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $6.3 billion in the current quarter and $3.0 billion in the prior-year quarter. Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell averaged $977.2 million and increased $26.4 million, or 3%, from $950.8 million in the prior-year quarter. The increase in Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell interest income and (1) (1) 9 THIRD QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) expense is primarily driven by sponsored member program activity due to increased client demand and wider spreads with the market presenting consistent opportunities to achieve higher rates. Loans averaged $39.9 billion and decreased $2.3 billion, or 6%, from $42.2 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting lower levels of Non-U.S. loans and other loans, partially offset by average loan increases in commercial and institutional, residential real estate, private client, and commercial real estate loans. Non-U.S. loans averaged $3.3 billion and decreased $126.8 million, or 4%, from $3.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Private client loans averaged $15.8 billion and increased $1.8 billion, or 13%, from $14.0 billion for the prior-year quarter. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $14.4 billion and increased $2.0 billion, or 16%, from $12.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.5 billion and increased $149.4 million, or 2%, from $6.4 billion for the prior-year quarter. Commercial real estate loans averaged $5.9 billion and increased $914.0 million, or 18%, from $5.0 billion for the prior-year quarter. Average Other Interest-Earning Assets include collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, certain community development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, a money market investment, and Federal Reserve stock of $1.4 billion, $836.7 million, $342.7 million, $94.3 million, and $70.0 million, respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits increased $11.2 billion, or 13%, to an average of $96.2 billion in the current quarter from $85.0 billion in the prior-year quarter. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current quarter was driven by higher deposit costs. Average Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits comprised 67% and 69% of total average Interest-Bearing Deposits for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Average other interest-bearing liabilities decreased $5.4 billion, or 24%, to an average of $16.8 billion in the current quarter from $22.2 billion in the prior-year quarter. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Provision for Credit Losses In the current quarter, there was a Provision for Credit Losses of $8.0 million, as compared to a Provision for Credit Losses of $14.0 million in the prior-year quarter. The Provision for Credit Losses in the current quarter resulted from an increase in both the collective and individual reserves. The increase in collective reserves was primarily driven by a small number of downgrades and extensions in the Commercial and Institutional (C&I) portfolio. The reserve evaluated on a collective basis relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The increase in individual reserves was driven by the default of one C&I loan. The Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year quarter was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by a small number of large new loans and renewals and credit quality deterioration of certain Commercial Real Estate (CRE) and C&I loans, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook. Net recoveries in the current quarter were $2.4 million, reflecting $2.4 million of recoveries and de minimis charge-offs. The prior-year quarter included $0.3 million net recoveries, reflecting $1.1 million of recoveries and $0.8 million of charge-offs. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A. Noninterest Expense (continued) Employee Benefits expense increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by higher medical costs. Outside Services expense increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to an increase in consulting services. Equipment and Software expense increased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher software amortization and higher software support and rental expense. Other Operating Expense decreased compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a decrease in account servicing activities and the impact of reclassifying the amortization of certain investments from Other Operating Expense to the Provision for Income Taxes, in accordance with a new accounting standard that took effect in 2024. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was $136.2 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22.7%, compared to $106.5 million in the prior-year quarter, representing an effective tax rate of 24.5%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to higher current year benefits. NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Financial Results Net Income per diluted common share increased in the current period to $7.51 from $4.56 in the prior-year period. Net Income increased $581.5 million, or 59%, to $1.58 billion in the current period from $994.2 million in the prior-year period. Annualized return on average common equity was 18.2% in the current period and 12.1% in the prior-year period. The annualized return on average assets was 1.44% in the current period compared to 0.92% in the prior-year period. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 increased $1.1 billion from $5.23 billion in the prior-year period to $6.33 billion in the current period. The increase was driven by a $878.4 million net gain related to the Visa transactions in the second quarter of 2024, as well as a $68.1 million pre-tax gain related to the sale of an equity investment (after-tax $51.4 million) in the third quarter of 2024, recorded in Other Operating Income, partially offset by a $189.4 million loss on the sale of available for sale debt securities recognized in the first quarter of 2024, recorded in Investment Security Gains (Losses), net. For further detail on the Visa transactions, refer to Note 20—Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $233.8 million, or 7%, from $3.27 billion in the prior-year period to $3.51 billion in the current period, primarily driven by favorable markets and net new business. Other Noninterest Income increased $754.4 million or 165%, from $457.5 million in the prior-year period to $1.21 billion in the current period, primarily driven by the net gain related to the Visa transactions in the second quarter of 2024 as well as the current quarter gain on the sale of an equity investment, partially offset by the loss on the sale of available for sale debt securities recognized in the first quarter of 2024. Net Interest Income increased $114.4 million, or 8%, from $1.5 billion in the prior-year period to $1.61 billion in the current period, primarily due to higher client deposits and securities repositioning, partially offset by higher funding costs in the first half of the year and a decrease in the loan portfolio. There was a $7.5 million Provision for Credit Losses in the current period, as compared to a $13.5 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year period. For additional information, refer to the Provision for Credit Losses within “Third Quarter Consolidated Results of Operations” section. Noninterest Expense increased $362.3 million, or 9%, from $3.90 billion in the prior-year period to $4.26 billion in the current period, primarily attributable to higher severance-related charges recorded in Compensation expense, higher Other Operating Expense, higher Equipment and Software expense, and higher Outside Services expense, partially offset by lower Occupancy Expense. The Provision for Income Taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 totaled $489.6 million, representing an effective tax rate of 23.7%. The Provision for Income Taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 totaled $324.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.6%. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided in the table below. Net Interest Income, stated on an FTE basis, increased from the prior-year period, primarily driven by higher deposits, securities repositioning, and a higher than average impact of other items, partially offset by higher funding costs and a decrease in the loan portfolio. Average earning assets increased from the prior-year period primarily due to higher client deposits and the proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in the second quarter of 2024. The net interest margin on an FTE basis increased from the prior-year period, primarily driven by higher deposits and securities repositioning, partially offset by higher funding costs. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits averaged $36.0 billion and increased $3.0 billion, or 9%, from $33.0 billion in the prior-year period. Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks averaged $4.7 billion in the current period and $4.4 billion in the prior-year period. Average Securities were $49.6 billion and decreased $0.5 billion, or 1%, from $50.1 billion in the prior-year period. Average taxable securities were $43.7 billion in the current period and $47.1 billion in the prior-year period. Average nontaxable securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $5.9 billion in the current period and $3.0 billion in the prior-year period. Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell averaged $743.2 million, a decrease of $335.0 million, or 31%, from $1.1 billion in the prior-year period. The increase in Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell interest income and expense is (1) (1) 14 NINE-MONTH CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) primarily driven by sponsored member program activity due to increased client demand and wider spreads with the market presenting consistent opportunities to achieve higher rates. Loans averaged $40.8 billion and decreased $1.3 billion, or 3%, from $42.2 billion in the prior-year period, primarily reflecting lower levels of commercial and institutional, non-U.S., and residential real estate, partially offset by higher levels of commercial real estate and private loans. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $11.2 billion and decreased $1.4 billion, or 11%, from $12.6 billion for the prior-year period. Non-U.S. loans averaged $3.0 billion and decreased $462.8 million, or 13%, from $3.4 billion for the prior-year period. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.3 billion and decreased $141.3 million, or 2%, from $6.4 billion for the prior-year period. Commercial real estate loans averaged $5.3 billion and increased $384.3 million, or 8%, from $4.9 billion for the prior-year period. Private client loans averaged $14.1 billion and increased $226.7 million, or 2%, from $13.9 billion for the prior-year period. Average Other Interest-Earning Assets include collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, certain community development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, a money market investment, and Federal Reserve stock of $1.5 billion, $856.7 million, $332.5 million, $94.8 million, and $70.0 million respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits increased $7.9 billion, or 9%, to an average of $96.2 billion in the current period from $88.3 billion in the prior-year period. Other average interest-related funding decreased $5.3 billion, to an average of $17.0 billion in the current period from $22.3 billion in the prior-year period. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current period was driven by higher deposit costs. Average non-U.S. offices interest-bearing deposits comprised 66% and 69% of total average interest-bearing deposits for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Provision for Credit Losses There was a Provision for Credit Losses of $7.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to a $13.5 million provision in the prior-year period. The provision in the current-year period was primarily due to an increase in collective reserves, partially offset by a decrease in individual reserves. The increase in collective reserves was primarily driven by a small number of downgrades and extensions in the C&I portfolio and by expectations for weaker prices in the CRE portfolio. The decrease in individual reserves was driven by one C&I loan charge-off in the first quarter, partially offset by the default of one C&I loan in the current quarter. The provision in the prior-year period was primarily due to an increase in the collective reserve, driven by new loans and renewals in the CRE portfolio and expectations of higher economic stress in the CRE market, particularly office CRE, partially offset by a net improvement in the overall macroeconomic outlook and lower loss projections for certain large C&I loans. Net charge-offs in the current-year period totaled $7.9 million resulting from $11.4 million of charge-offs and $3.5 million of recoveries, compared to net charge-offs of $2.6 million in the prior-year period resulting from $5.6 million of charge-offs and $3.0 million of recoveries. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A. Noninterest Expense (continued) Employee Benefits expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by higher medical costs. Outside Services expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher technical services and higher consulting services. Equipment and Software expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to higher software disposition charges in the second quarter of 2024, as well as higher software amortization, and higher software support expense. Occupancy expense decreased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to charges of $12.8 million related to early lease exits recorded during the prior-year period. Other Operating Expense increased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a $70.0 million charitable contribution and $10.6 million legal settlement recorded in the second quarter of 2024 and $14.7 million of additional expense related to the FDIC special assessment in the current period, partially offset by the $25.6 million charge related to the write-off of an investment in a client capability in the prior-year period. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was $489.6 million, representing an effective tax rate of 23.7%, compared to $324.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, representing an effective tax rate of 24.6%. The effective tax rate decreased compared to the prior-year period primarily due to higher current-year benefits. REPORTING SEGMENTS Northern Trust is organized around its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Reporting segment financial information, presented on an internal management-reporting basis, is determined by accounting systems used to allocate revenue and expense to each segment, and incorporates processes for allocating assets, liabilities, equity and the applicable interest income and expense utilizing a funds transfer pricing (FTP) methodology. Under the methodology, assets and liabilities receive a funding charge or credit that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and other product characteristics on an instrument level. Additionally, segment information is presented on an FTE basis as management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest income. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. Revenues, expenses and average assets are allocated to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management, with the exception of non-recurring activities such as certain corporate transactions and costs incurred associated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments not directly attributable to a specific reporting segment, which are reported within the Other segment. Effective January 2024, Northern Trust implemented certain enhancements to its FTP methodology, impacting the allocation of Net Interest Income to the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management segments. As a result, the approximate impact on the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management segments was a $36 million decrease and a $36 million increase in Net Interest Income, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2024. The approximate impact on the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management segments was a $99 million decrease and a $99 million increase in Net Interest Income, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Prior-period segment results have not been revised to reflect this methodology change. Reporting segment results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made. The results are also subject to refinements in revenue and expense allocation methodologies, which are typically reflected on a prospective basis. For further details, please refer to Note 9—Reporting Segments. Asset Servicing Asset Servicing Net Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2024, Net Income increased $37.2 million, or 23%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher Net Interest Income and Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, partially offset by higher Noninterest Expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, Net Income decreased $28.8 million, or 6%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher Noninterest Expense, partially offset by an increase in Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section. Asset Servicing Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, Foreign Exchange Trading Income increased $5.2 million, or 10%, from the prior-year quarter and $20.4 million, or 13%, from the prior-year period, primarily driven by higher client volumes. Asset Servicing Net Interest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2024, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis increased $40.2 million, or 14%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily driven by deposit balances and higher spreads, partially offset by the change in reporting segment allocation methodology beginning in 2024 noted above. Asset Servicing Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended September 30, 2024, there was a negative Provision for Credit Losses of $0.6 million compared to a $3.1 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year quarter. The Provision for Credit Losses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 reflected a decrease in the collective and individual reserves. The decrease in collective reserve was primarily in the C&I portfolio. The decrease in individual reserves was driven by the paydown of one C&I loan. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, there was a negative Provision for Credit Losses of $1.9 million compared to a $3.3 million negative Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year period. The Provision for Credit Losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 reflected a decrease in the individual reserve, partially offset by an increase in the collective reserve. The decrease in individual reserves was driven by one loan moved back to the collective reserve in the first quarter and the paydown of one C&I loan in the current quarter. The increase in collective reserve was primarily in the C&I portfolio, driven by a small number of downgrades. Asset Servicing Noninterest Expense For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $51.4 million, or 6%, from the prior-year quarter primarily due to higher expense allocations, and $174.3 million, or 7%, from the prior-year period primarily due to higher severance related-charges and higher expense allocations. Wealth Management Wealth Management Net Income For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, Net Income increased $54.8 million, or 31%, from the prior-year quarter and $94.8 million, or 18%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to higher Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees and higher Net Interest Income, partially offset by higher Noninterest Expense. Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section. Wealth Management Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, Foreign Exchange Trading Income decreased $5.8 million, or 92%, from the prior-year period primarily driven by lower allocations. Wealth Management Other Noninterest Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, Other Noninterest Income decreased $7.5 million, or 7%, from the prior-year period primarily due to lower creditrelated fees and swap fees. 18 REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Wealth Management Net Interest Income For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis increased $59.8 million, or 32%, from the prior-year quarter and $98.3 million, or 15%, from the prior-year period, primarily due to the change in reporting segment allocation methodology beginning in 2024 noted above and higher deposit balances. Wealth Management Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended September 30, 2024, there was a Provision for Credit Losses of $12.4 million compared to a $10.9 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prioryear quarter. The Provision for Credit Losses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 resulted from increases in both collective and individual reserves. The increase in collective reserve was primarily in the C&I portfolio, driven by a small number of downgrades and extensions. The increase in individual reserves was driven by the default of one C&I loan. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, there was a Provision for Credit Losses of $15.7 million compared to a $16.8 million Provision for Credit Losses in the prior-year period. The Provision for Credit Losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 reflected an increase in the collective reserve, partially offset by a decrease in the individual reserve. The increase in collective reserve was primarily driven by a small number of downgrades and extensions in the C&I portfolio and expectations for weaker prices in the CRE portfolio. The decrease in individual reserves was driven by one C&I loan that was charged off in the first quarter, partially offset by the default of one C&I loan in the current quarter. Wealth Management Noninterest Expense For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expenses of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $34.4 million, or 8%, from the prior-year quarter and $102.5 million, or 7%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher indirect expense allocations. Other Other—Noninterest Income For the quarter ended September 30, 2024, Other Noninterest Income increased $50.1 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to the gain related to the sale of an equity investment, partially offset by higher expenses related to existing Visa Class B swap agreements in the current quarter. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, Other Noninterest Income increased $747.1 million from the prior-year period primarily due to the gain related to the net impact from the Visa transactions in the second quarter of 2024 and the current-quarter gain related to the sale of an equity investment, partially offset by the loss on sale of available for sale debt securities arising from a repositioning of the portfolio in the first quarter of 2024. Other—Noninterest Expense For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, Other Noninterest Expense increased $85.5 million from the prior-year period, primarily due to the charitable contribution to the Northern Trust Foundation and a legal settlement in the prior quarter and additional expense related to the FDIC special assessment, partially offset by a decrease in non-allocated occupancy expense primarily arising from early lease exits. Average balances are considered to be a better measure of balance sheet trends, as period-end balances can be impacted by the timing of deposit and withdrawal activity involving large client balances. Average earning assets increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher client deposits. Average earning assets were relatively unchanged compared to the prior-year period. Select Earning Assets. Average securities decreased from the prior-year quarter and the prior-year period reflecting the impact of repositioning and reinvesting in shortterm and long-term securities. For additional discussion relating to the securities (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) 20 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued) portfolio, refer to the “Asset Quality” section in this MD&A and to Note 4—Securities to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Client Deposits. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits increased in both the the prior-year quarter and prior-year period primarily due to an increase in client balances as a result of strategic pricing actions. Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing Deposits decreased in both the prior-year quarter and prior-year period as clients migrated into higher yield products. Short-Term Borrowings. Short-term borrowings includes Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. The decrease in average Other Borrowings from the prior-year quarter and prior-year period was primarily due to strategic utilization of balance sheet capacity. Stockholders’ Equity. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $151.6 million and $459.3 million to common stockholders, and cash dividends totaling $16.2 million and $37.1 million to preferred stockholders, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $157.6 million and $474.0 million to common stockholders, and cash dividends totaling $16.2 million and $37.1 million to preferred stockholders, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, the Corporation repurchased 3,463,546 and 8,112,288 shares of common stock, respectively, at a total cost of $301.4 million ($87.01 average price per share) and $684.2 million ($84.34 average price per share), respectively, including 15,629 and 398,646 shares withheld, respectively, to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Corporation repurchased 14,738 and 2,426,793 shares of common stock, respectively, at a total cost of $1.1 million ($77.39 average price per share) and $201.3 million ($82.95 average price per share), respectively, including 14,738 and 356,145 shares withheld, respectively, to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation. ASSET QUALITY Securities Portfolio Northern Trust maintains a high quality debt securities portfolio. The following tables provide the fair value of available for sale (AFS) debt securities and amortized cost of held to maturity (HTM) debt securities by credit rating. Debt securities not explicitly rated were grouped where possible under the credit rating of the issuer of the security. Securities Portfolio (continued) $20.1 million and $2.3 billion of gross unrealized gains and losses, respectively. $245.5 million of the $1.6 billion gross unrealized losses relate to AFS debt securities as of September 30, 2024, and $582.4 million of the $2.3 billion gross unrealized losses relate to AFS debt securities as of December 31, 2023. As of September 30, 2024, the $28.3 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses, excluding securities with an allowance for credit losses, of $114.3 million, $45.6 million, and $19.1 million related to government-sponsored agency securities, sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds and U.S. government, respectively, which are primarily attributable to higher average market interest rates as compared to the respective purchase dates of the securities. As of December 31, 2023, the $23.1 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses, excluding securities with an allowance for credit losses, of $200.3 million, $105.8 million, and $100.0 million related to government sponsored agency, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, and other asset-backed, respectively, which were primarily attributable to lower yields and tighter spreads. In January 2024, the Corporation sold certain AFS debt securities that were in an unrealized loss position. The $189.4 million loss is recognized in Investment Security Gains (Losses), net on the consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. In November 2023, the Corporation sold certain AFS debt securities that were in an unrealized loss position. The $176.4 million loss is recognized in Investment Security Gains (Losses), net on the consolidated statements of income for the period ended December 31, 2023. As of September 30, 2024, the $22.7 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $823.8 million, $197.6 million and $156.9 million related to government-sponsored agency, sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds and Other respectively, which are primarily attributable to higher average market interest rates as compared to the respective purchase dates of the securities. As of December 31, 2023, the $26.2 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had an unrealized loss of $1.0 billion and $294.9 million related to government-sponsored agency and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which are primarily attributable to lower yields and tighter spreads. HTM debt securities consist of securities that management intends to, and Northern Trust has the ability to, hold until maturity. For additional information relating to the securities portfolio, refer to Note 4—Securities. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financings and recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. To minimize potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities purchased or sold is monitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. It is Northern Trust’s policy to take possession, either directly or via third-party custodians, of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are held by the counterparty until their repurchase. For additional information relating to the securities sold under agreements to repurchase, refer to Note 22—Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase. Nonaccrual Loans and Other Real Estate Owned Nonaccrual assets consist of nonaccrual loans and other real estate owned (OREO). OREO is comprised of commercial and residential properties acquired in partial or total satisfaction of loans. The following table provides the amounts of nonaccrual loans, by loan segment and class, and of OREO that were outstanding at the dates shown, as well as the balance of loans that were delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest. Loans that are delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest can fluctuate widely based on the timing of cash collections, renegotiation and renewals. Nonaccrual assets of $39.3 million as of September 30, 2024 decreased $25.8 million, or 40%, from December 31, 2023, primarily due to a private client loan payoff and a commercial and institutional loan charge-off, both of which occurred in the first quarter. In addition to the negative impact on Net Interest Income and the risk of credit losses, nonaccrual assets also increase operating costs due to the expense associated with collection efforts. Changes in the level of nonaccrual assets may be indicative of changes in the credit quality of one or more loan classes. Changes in credit quality impact the allowance for credit losses through the resultant adjustment of the allowance evaluated on an individual basis and the quantitative and qualitative factors used in the determination of the allowance evaluated on a collective basis within the allowance for credit losses. Northern Trust’s credit policies do not allow for the origination of loan types generally considered to be high risk in nature, such as option adjustable rate mortgage loans, subprime loans, loans with initial “teaser” rates and loans with excessively high loan-to-value ratios. Residential real estate loans consist of first lien mortgages and equity credit lines, which generally require a loan-to-collateral value of no more than 65% to 80% at inception. Appraisals of supporting collateral for residential real estate loans are obtained at loan origination and upon refinancing or default or when otherwise considered warranted. Residential real estate collateral appraisals are performed and reviewed by independent third parties. The commercial real estate portfolio consists of commercial mortgages and construction, acquisition and development loans extended primarily to experienced investors well known to Northern Trust. Underwriting standards generally reflect conservative loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage requirements. Recourse to owners through guarantees also is commonly required. For additional information relating to the loans portfolio, refer to Note 5—Loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses—which represents management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses related to various portfolios subject to credit risk, offbalance-sheet credit exposure, and specific borrower relationships—is determined by management through a disciplined credit review process. Northern Trust measures expected credit losses of financial assets with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. A financial asset is measured individually if it does not share similar risk characteristics with other financial assets and the related allowance is determined through an individual evaluation. Management’s estimates utilized in establishing an appropriate level of allowance for credit losses are not dependent on any single assumption. In determining an appropriate allowance level, management evaluates numerous variables, many of which are interrelated or dependent on other assumptions and estimates, and takes into consideration past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The results of the credit reserve estimation methodology are reviewed quarterly by Northern Trust’s Credit Loss Reserve Committee, which receives input from Financial Risk Management, Treasury, Corporate Finance, the Economic Research Department, and each of Northern Trust’s reporting business units. 24 ASSET QUALITY (continued) Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) As of September 30, 2024, the Allowance for Credit Losses related to loans, undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of credit, HTM debt securities, and other financial assets, was $184.8 million, $26.5 million, $7.5 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the Allowance for Credit Losses related to loans, undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of credit, HTM debt securities, and other financial assets, was $178.7 million, $26.9 million, $12.7 million, and $0.9 million, respectively. There was a $0.2 million and $1.2 million allowance for credit losses related to AFS debt securities as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. For additional information relating to the allowance for credit losses and the changes in the allowance for credit losses during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 and September 30, 2023 due to charge-offs, recoveries and provisions for credit losses, refer to Note 6—Allowance for Credit Losses. The table provides the allowance evaluated on an individual and collective basis for the loan portfolio by segment and class Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $2.1 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to period earnings and net changes in other operating activities, partially offset by increases in receivables and pension plan contributions. Net cash used in operating activities of $177.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties and an increase in receivables, partially offset by period earnings, net changes in other operating activities, and an increase in interest payable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $355.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to increased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits and net purchases of AFS debt securities, partially offset by the net proceeds received from the sale of certain Visa shares and net proceeds associated with loans and HTM debt securities. Net cash provided by investing activities of $9.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to decreased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $287.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to the increased levels of total deposits, partially offset by increased treasury share purchases and securities sold under agreements to repurchase. Net cash used in financing activities of $8.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to the decreased levels of total deposits, partially offset by increased levels of federal funds purchased and proceeds from long-term debt. The decrease in total deposits was primarily attributable to lower levels of savings, money market, and other interest-bearing deposits and lower levels of non-U.S. office interest-bearing deposits. 26 CAPITAL RATIOS The capital ratios of Northern Trust Corporation and its principal subsidiary, The Northern Trust Company, remained strong at September 30, 2024, exceeding the requirements for classification as “well-capitalized” under applicable U.S. regulatory requirements. Northern Trust is a Category II institution as defined by the Federal Reserve Board which requires us to adhere to regulatory capital standards. In adhering to these standards, Northern Trust engages in a range of reporting and activities with regulators to affirm our financial strength and stability, including but not limited to, capital adequacy reporting that deducts any unrealized losses related to AFS securities from reported capital, and stringent, annual company-run and supervisory stress testing in the form of Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) exercises, which confirms our ability to remain solvent under severely adverse market conditions. The results of the 2024 Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST), published by the Federal Reserve Board on June 26, 2024, resulted in Northern Trust’s stress capital buffer and effective Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio minimum requirement remaining constant at 2.5% and 7.0%, respectively, for the annual capital plan cycle beginning on October 1, 2024 through September 30, 2025. On July 27, 2023, the U.S. banking regulators issued the Basel III Endgame Proposal, which would change how risk-based capital requirements are determined for banking organizations including Northern Trust. The proposal would eliminate the existing advanced approach methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets (RWA) and replace it with a new expanded risk-based approach. The new requirements would be phased in over a three-year period beginning July 1, 2025. Based on our current understanding of the proposed rule, we estimate that, if the expanded risk-based approach had applied on a fully phased-in basis, and in the absence of taking any actions to mitigate its impact, our expanded risk-based approach RWAs would have been approximately 5% to 15% higher than our actual standardized approach RWAs. The table below provides capital ratios, as well as the required minimum capital ratios, for Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2023-07, “Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures” (ASU 2023-07). ASU 2023-07 significantly expands disclosures about a public entity’s reportable segments, primarily through more frequent and enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. ASU 2023-07 does not change how a public entity identifies its operating segments, aggregates those operating segments or applies the quantitative thresholds to determine its reportable segments. ASU 2023-07 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the impact of ASU 2023-07 will be limited to certain enhancements within the notes to the consolidated financial statements and therefore is not expected to have an impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures” (ASU 2023-09). ASU 2023-09 enhances disclosures by further disaggregating existing annual income tax disclosures related to the effective tax rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. ASU 2023- 09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the impact of ASU 2023-09 will be limited to certain enhancements within the notes to the consolidated financial statements and therefore is not expected to have an impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to raise sufficient funds or maintain collateral to meet balance sheet and contingent liability cash flow obligations when due, because of firm-specific or market-wide stress events. Northern Trust is a Category II institution as defined by the Federal Reserve Board which requires us to adhere to the same regulatory liquidity standards as U.S. global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs). In adhering to these standards, Northern Trust engages in a range of reporting and activities with regulators to affirm our financial strength and stability, including but not limited to, daily Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio calculations to regulators. We maintain a highly liquid balance sheet consisting principally of cash held at the Federal Reserve and other central banks, money market assets, and short-term investment securities, which were 64% and 59% of total assets as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. 87% and 82% of Northern Trust’s securities portfolio is composed of U.S. Treasury, government sponsored agency and triple-A rated securities as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Market Risk There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk associated with the banking book and trading risk. Interest rate risk associated with the banking book is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in Net Interest Income and the market value of equity, including Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) from the AFS debt securities portfolio. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to cause changes in the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE) sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with a long-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. Higher interest rates may impact the fair value of AFS debt securities which in turn affects Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), which can impact regulatory capital ratios. As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all trading book positions using a Value-at-Risk (VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rate swaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e., change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. These assumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity given uncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: 28 RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) Market Risk (continued) ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similar terms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a more conservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analytics system that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgage analytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availability of historical data and current pricing strategies/or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point ramps upward and downward in interest rates relative to forward rates as of September 30, 2024 and September 30, 2023. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.” Forwardlooking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results and outlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; future pension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; and expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectations of future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based on assumptions about many important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession in the U.S. or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a number of factors; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets in general, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respect to which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • Northern Trust’s success in controlling the costs and expenses of its business operations and the impacts of any broader inflationary environment thereon; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, the liquidity and pricing of which may be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cybersecurity, data privacy and security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuation of securities, fraud, operational resilience (including systems performance), failure to maintain sustainable business practices, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust's success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as pandemics, natural disasters, terrorist events and war (including the continuing military conflicts involving Ukraine and the Russian Federation and evolving events in the Middle East), and the responses of the U.S. and other countries to those events; • unexpected deposit outflows; • the effectiveness of Northern Trust’s management of its human capital, including its success in recruiting and retaining necessary and diverse personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise to support increasingly complex products and services; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arising from all such changes and volatility; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor; • increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatory emphasis and oversight in the U.S. and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy and security; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, including credit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory process, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; 32 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the U.S. or other countries that could affect Northern Trust or its clients; • the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns and payouts; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary; and • other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, including those factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the date of that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.