 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

COMPANY PROFILE 

Old National Bancorp, the financial holding company of Old National Bank, our wholly-owned banking subsidiary (&#8220;Old National Bank&#8221;), is incorporated in the state of Indiana, is the sixth largest Midwestern-headquartered bank by asset size with consolidated assets of $49.1 billion at December 31, 2023, and ranks among the top 30 banking companies headquartered in the United States. The Company&#8217;s corporate headquarters and principal executive office are located in Evansville, Indiana with commercial and consumer banking operations headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Through our wholly-owned banking subsidiary and non-bank affiliates, we provide a wide range of services primarily throughout the Midwest region and elsewhere, including commercial and consumer loan and depository services, private banking, capital markets, brokerage, wealth management, trust, investment advisory, and other traditional banking services. 

THE BANK 

Old National Bank traces its roots to 1834 and at December 31, 2023, operated 258 banking centers located primarily throughout the Midwestern United States, including Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Each of the banking centers of Old National Bank provides a group of similar community banking services, including such products and services as commercial, real estate, and consumer loans; deposits; and private banking, capital markets, brokerage, wealth management, trust, and investment advisory services. The individual banking centers located throughout our Midwest footprint have similar operating and economic characteristics. 

We earn interest income on loans as well as fee income from the origination of loans. Lending activities include loans to individuals, which primarily consist of home equity lines of credit, residential real estate loans, and consumer loans, and loans to commercial clients, which include commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, agricultural loans, letters of credit, and lease financing. Residential real estate loans are either kept in our loan portfolio or sold to secondary investors, with gains or losses from the sales being recognized. 

We strive to serve individuals and commercial clients by providing depository services that fit their needs at competitive rates. We pay interest on interest-bearing deposits and receive service fee revenue on various accounts. Deposit accounts include products such as noninterest-bearing demand, interest-bearing checking and NOW, savings and money market, and time deposits. Debit and ATM cards provide clients with access to their accounts 24 hours a day at any ATM location. We also provide 24-hour telephone access and online banking as well as other electronic and mobile banking services. 

In addition to providing lending and deposit services, we offer comprehensive wealth management, trust, investment advisory, and foreign currency services. For businesses, we provide treasury management, merchant, and capital markets services as well as community development lending and equity investment solutions intended to produce jobs and revitalize our communities. 

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES 

At December 31, 2023, we employed 3,940 full-time equivalent team members. Old National respects, values, and welcomes diversity in our team members, clients, suppliers, and marketplace. We seek to maintain an inclusive environment and recognize the unique contribution each individual brings to our Company, and we are fully committed to supporting a rich culture of diversity as a cornerstone to our success. At December 31, 2023, our team members were approximately 67% women and approximately 25% people of color. Old National provides professional development opportunities to team members and seeks to improve retention, development, and job satisfaction of team members from diverse groups by providing career skills training, peer mentoring, and opportunities to interact with senior leaders. Our Structured Leadership Development Programs, Associate and Community Engagement Teams, Impact Networks, and the ONUniversity training and development center are among the many programs designed to drive Old National employee development and engagement. 

To attract and retain our group of skilled team members, Old National provides a competitive total rewards package, which includes base pay, incentive opportunities, and benefits. Our strong, comprehensive benefits package includes health insurance and wellness coverages, a retirement plan with company matching contributions, other welfare plan 

coverages, paid time off, and paid leave benefits. In addition to our standard benefits, our team members have access to dedicated healthcare clinics and alternative work schedules for maternity, paternity, and foster-care leave. 

Old National team members consistently strive to make a positive difference in the communities we serve. Old National team members actively share their talents in their communities through volunteer activities in education, economic development, human and health services, and Community Reinvestment. We have a program that allows each team member to be paid up to 24 hours per year, with supervisory approval, to volunteer for activities in their community during normal work hours. Under that program, team members logged over 57,000 volunteer hours during 2023 in support of 2,400 organizations. Team member volunteers are recognized for their efforts on our corporate portal. Team members with 25 hours or more of service each year are recognized annually by executive management. 

MARKET AREAS SERVED 

Since our founding, Old National has focused on community and commercial banking by building long-term, highly valued partnerships with clients in our Midwest region. We have continued to expand our footprint through strategic mergers and acquisitions, and we are now the sixth largest bank headquartered in the Midwest by assets. 

The following table reflects information on the top markets we currently serve. 

##TABLE_START Metropolitan Statistical Area Deposits as a Percent of Old National Bank Franchise (%) Deposits Per Branch ($M) 2020-2024 Population Change (%) 2024-2029 Projected Population Change (%) 2024 Median Household Income ($) 2024-2029 Projected Household Income Change (%) Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI 43.3 177.7 (2.1) 0.1 85,119 8.4 Evansville, IN-KY 10.5 255.3 0.1 1.2 67,796 8.7 Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI 9.9 125.2 1.3 2.7 94,405 7.4 Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson, IN 5.3 91.5 2.8 4.0 76,586 12.5 Milwaukee-Waukesha, WI 3.5 210.2 (1.0) 0.3 74,071 9.7 Madison, WI 2.4 79.6 2.4 3.8 84,987 8.3 Bloomington, IN 2.1 150.2 0.2 1.2 57,755 7.4 National average 1.4 &#160; 2.4 &#160; 75,874 &#160; 10.1 &#160; Weighted average total Old National Bank (0.7) 1.0 &#160; 78,604 &#160; 8.8 &#160; ##TABLE_END

Source: S&#38;P Global Market Intelligence. Deposit data as of June 30, 2023. 

STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS 

Since forming our holding company in 1982, we have acquired over 50 financial institutions and other financial services businesses. Old National assesses possible mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures based on a disciplined financial evaluation process and expects that future mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures will be consistent with our existing basic banking strategy, which focuses on community banking, client relationships, and consistent quality earnings. Targeted geographic markets for mergers and acquisitions include markets with average to above average growth rates. 

We anticipate that, as with previous mergers and acquisitions, the consideration paid by us in future mergers and acquisitions may be in the form of cash, debt, or Old National stock, or a combination thereof and may reflect a premium to the target&#8217;s then-market value. The amount and structure of such consideration is based on reasonable growth and cost savings assumptions and a thorough analysis of the impact on both long- and short-term financial results. 

Our ability to engage in certain transactions depends on the bank regulators&#8217; views at the time as to the capital levels, quality of management, and overall condition of Old National, in addition to their assessment of a variety of other factors, including our compliance with law and regulations. 

On February 15, 2022, Old National completed its previously announced merger of equals transaction with First Midwest pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated as of May 30, 2021, to combine in an all-stock transaction. The merger of equals of Old National and First Midwest partnered two highly compatible organizations with over 270 combined years of service and a shared relationship banking focus, consistent business models and 

credit cultures, and an unwavering commitment to community. The combined organization has operations in six of the largest Midwestern metropolitan areas, strong commercial banking capabilities, a robust retail footprint, a significant wealth management platform, and an enhanced ability to attract top talent and deliver superior financial performance. 

On October 26, 2023, Old National announced that it entered into a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which Old National will acquire CapStar and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CapStar Bank, in an all-stock transaction. As of September 30, 2023, CapStar had approximately $3.3 billion of total assets, $2.3 billion of total loans, and $2.8 billion of deposits. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each outstanding share of CapStar common stock will be converted into the right to receive 1.155 shares of Old National common stock, valuing the transaction at approximately $344.4 million, or $16.64 per share, based on Old National&#8217;s 30-day volume weighted average closing stock price ending October 25, 2023, the day prior to execution of the merger agreement. The transaction value is likely to change until closing due to fluctuations in the price of Old National common stock. The definitive merger agreement has been approved by the Board of Directors of each company. The transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2024 subject to the approval of CapStar shareholders. 

Divestitures 

On November 18, 2022, Old National Bank completed the sale of Old National&#8217;s business of acting as a qualified custodian for, and administering, health savings accounts. Old National served as custodian for health savings accounts comprised of both investment accounts and deposit accounts. At closing, the health savings accounts held in deposit accounts that were transferred totaled approximately $382 million and the transaction resulted in a $90.7 million pre-tax gain in 2022. 

During the fourth quarter of 2022, Old National initiated certain property optimization actions that included the closure and consolidation of certain branches as well as other real estate repositioning across our footprint. These actions resulted in pre-tax charges of $26.8 million in 2022 and $1.6 million in 2023 recorded in noninterest expense that are associated with valuation adjustments related to these locations. 

COMPETITION 

The banking industry and related financial service providers operate in a highly competitive market. Old National competes with financial service providers such as other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, Financial Technology, or &#8220;FinTech,&#8221; companies, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds, and other financial services providers. 

Many of our competitors are financial institutions that are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources than we do. Some of our nonfinancial institution competitors may have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality clients has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, mergers and acquisitions, advances in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Old National is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders or non-depository creditors. 

Significant elements of certain laws and regulations applicable to Old National and its subsidiaries are described below. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies and are subject to change. Old National is unable to predict changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, and any such change could have a material effect on our business. 

Old National Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company and has elected to be a financial holding company. As a bank holding company and financial holding company, Old National Bancorp is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;), and is required to file reports with the Federal Reserve and to provide the Federal Reserve any additional information it may require. As a national bank, Old National Bank is subject to primary regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;). 

Bank Holding Company Regulation. Generally, the BHC Act governs the acquisition and control of banks and non-banking companies by bank holding companies. The BHC Act also regulates the business activities of bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries. 

The BHC Act, the Bank Merger Act, and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks and their holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for the direct or indirect acquisition by a bank holding company of more than 5.0% of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its holding company. Under the BHC Act or the Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve or other appropriate bank regulatory authority is required for a bank holding company to acquire control of another bank or for a member bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, the applicant&#8217;s managerial and financial resources, the applicant&#8217;s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (the &#8220;CRA&#8221;) and its compliance with law, including fair housing laws and other consumer protection laws, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. 

In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve), without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments, among others. 

To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed.&#8221; A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it satisfies the requirements for this status discussed in &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action&#8221; below. A depository institution subsidiary is considered &#8220;well managed&#8221; if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination. A financial holding company&#8217;s status will also depend upon it maintaining its status as &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; under applicable Federal Reserve regulations. If a financial holding company ceases to meet these capital and management requirements, the BHC Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s regulations provide that the financial holding company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. Until the financial holding company returns to compliance, the Federal Reserve may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities, and the company may not commence any of the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or acquire a company engaged in such financial activities without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may require divestiture of the holding company&#8217;s depository institutions. Bank holding companies and banks must also be both well capitalized and well managed in order to acquire banks located outside their home state. 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act or to acquire a company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA. 

The Federal Reserve has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company. 

Source of Strength. Federal Reserve policy and regulations and federal law require bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, a bank holding company is expected to commit financial resources to support its bank subsidiary even at times when the holding company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when the holding company may not be inclined to provide it. Any loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to 

maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Financial Privacy. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (&#8220;GLB Act&#8221;), a financial institution may not disclose non-public personal information about a consumer to unaffiliated third-parties unless the institution satisfies various disclosure requirements and the consumer has not elected to opt out of the information sharing. The financial institution must provide its clients with a notice of its privacy policies and practices. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other financial regulatory agencies issued regulations implementing notice requirements and restrictions on a financial institution&#8217;s ability to disclose non-public personal information about consumers to unaffiliated third-parties. 

In addition, privacy and data protection are areas of increasing state legislative focus, and a number of states have enacted consumer privacy laws that impose significant compliance obligations with respect to personal information. Similar laws may in the future be adopted by states where the Company and Old National Bank do business. Furthermore, privacy and data protection areas are expected to receive additional attention at the Federal level. The potential effects of state or Federal privacy and data protection laws on the Company&#8217;s business cannot be determined at this time and will depend both on whether such laws are adopted by states in which the Company does business and/or at the Federal level and the requirements imposed by any such laws. 

Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act. The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;) and USA PATRIOT Act require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent them from being used for, and to detect and deter, money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illegal activities. If such activities are detected or suspected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of clients seeking to open new accounts and monitoring these accounts on an ongoing basis to ensure that such accounts are not used for illegal purposes. Failure to comply with these requirements could have serious financial, legal, and reputational consequences, including the imposition of civil money penalties, cease and desist orders, or causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions or to prohibit transactions even if approval is not required. 

In January 2021, the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (&#8220;AMLA&#8221;), which amends the BSA, was enacted. Among other things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance for financial institutions; requires the U.S. Department of the Treasury to promulgate priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy; requires the development of standards by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for testing technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority, including a significant expansion in the available sanctions for certain BSA violations; and expands BSA whistleblower incentives and protections. Many of the statutory provisions in the AMLA will require additional rulemaking, reports and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend on, among other things, rulemaking and implementation guidance. I n June 2021, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, issued the priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy, which is required under the AMLA. The priorities include: corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and proliferation financing. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation. The U.S. imposes economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, and others. These sanctions are administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). These sanctions include: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country, and (ii) blocking assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious financial, legal, and reputational consequences for the institution, including the imposition of civil money penalties, or causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions. 

Consumer Financial Protection. Old National Bank is subject to laws designed to protect consumers and prohibit unfair or deceptive business practices, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Ownership Protection Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions 

Act of 2003 (&#8220;FACT Act&#8221;), the GLB Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the CRA, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and applicable state law counterparts. T hese and other laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit and terms of deposit accounts, provide substantive consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, prohibit unfair, deceptive, and abusive practices and subject us to substantial regulatory oversight. Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in reputational damage and potential liability from litigation brought by customers, including actual damages, restitution, and attorneys&#8217; fees. Federal bank regulators, state attorneys general and state and local consumer protection agencies may also seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and obtain these and other remedies, including regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by the state and local attorneys general in each jurisdiction in which we operate and civil money penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also result in failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for merger or acquisition transactions or prohibit such transactions even if approval is not required. 

In addition, the CFPB has a broad mandate to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices, is specifically empowered to require certain disclosures to consumers and draft model disclosure forms and is responsible for making rules and regulations under the federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products and services. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, as well as their affiliates, and can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB may also institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial laws in order to impose a civil penalty or injunction. Banking regulators take into account compliance with consumer protection laws when considering approval of a proposed acquisition transaction. 

On October 19, 2023, the CFPB proposed a new rule that would require a provider of payment accounts or products, such as a bank, to make data available to consumers upon request regarding the products or services they obtain from the provider. Any such data provider would also have to make such data available to third parties, with the consumer&#8217;s express authorization and through an interface that satisfies formatting, performance and security standards, for the purpose of such third parties providing the consumer with financial products or services requested by the consumer. Data that would be required to be made available under the rule would include transaction information, account balance, account and routing numbers, terms and conditions, upcoming bill information, and certain account verification data. The proposed rule is intended to give consumers control over their financial data, including with whom it is shared, and encourage competition in the provision of consumer financial products or services. For banks with at least $850 million and less than $50 billion in total assets, compliance with the proposed rule&#8217;s requirements would be required approximately two and a half years after adoption of the final rule. For banks with at least $50 billion and less than $500 billion in total assets, which could include Old National Bank by the time a final rule is issued, compliance with the proposed rule&#8217;s requirements would be required approximately one year after adoption of the final rule. 

On January 17, 2024, the CFPB proposed a rule that would significantly reform the regulatory framework governing overdraft practices applicable to banks such as Old National Bank that have more than $10 billion in assets. The proposed rule would modify or eliminate several long-standing exclusions from requirements generally applicable to consumer credit that previously exempted certain overdraft practices. The proposal would also generally require banks to restructure many overdraft fees, overdraft lines of credit, and other overdraft practices as separate consumer credit accounts that would be subject to those requirements. These changes to the regulatory framework could result in Old National Bank, among other things, facing higher compliance costs in charging overdraft fees, experiencing a decreased ability to recover amounts extended as overdraft protection, reducing the availability of overdraft protection, and/or charging lower overdraft fees. 

Interchange Fees. Old National Bank is subject to interchange fee limitations that establish a maximum permissible interchange fee for many types of debit interchange transactions that is equal to no more than 21 cents per transaction plus five basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. Interchange fees, or &#8220;swipe&#8221; fees, are charges that merchants pay to card-issuing banks, such as Old National Bank, for processing electronic payment transactions. Additional Federal Reserve rules allow a debit card issuer to recover one cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements. 

In October 2023, the Federal Reserve proposed amendments to its rules on interchange fees. The proposed changes would establish a maximum permissible interchange fee of no more than 14.4 cents per transaction plus four basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. The fraud prevention adjustment would be increased to 1.3 cents 

per transaction. The proposed rule would also establish an automatic update of the interchange fee cap every other year based on a survey of debit card issuers. 

Capital Adequacy. 

Capital Requirements . Old National Bancorp and Old National Bank are each required to comply with certain risk-based capital and leverage requirements under capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC (the &#8220;Basel III Capital Rules&#8221;). These rules implement the Basel III framework set forth by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;) as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;). 

The Basel III Capital Rules define qualifying capital instruments and specify minimum amounts of capital as a percentage of assets that banking organizations are required to maintain. Under the Basel III Capital Rules, risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Common Equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;) capital, Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital, respectively, by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet credit equivalents are assigned a risk weight based primarily on supervisory assessments of relative credit risk. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company and Old National Bank are each required to maintain the following: 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; that is composed entirely of CET1 capital (effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of 7.0%). 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%). 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of total capital (Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%). 

&#8226; A minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum, but below the conservation buffer, will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income&#8221; (that is, the greater of (i) net income for the preceding four quarters, net of distributions and associated tax effects not reflected in net income and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters). 

The Basel III Capital Rules also provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1 capital. As a &#8220;non-advanced approaches&#8221; firm under the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company is subject to rules that provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 

The Company and Old National Bank, as non-advanced approaches banking organizations under the Basel III Capital Rules, made a one-time permanent election to exclude the effects of certain AOCI items included in shareholders&#8217; equity under GAAP in determining regulatory capital ratios. 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms. Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee&#8217;s standardized approach for credit risk (including the recalibration of risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain &#8220;unconditionally cancellable commitments,&#8221; such as unused credit card lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches banking organizations, and therefore not to the Company or Old National Bank. 

On July 27, 2023, the federal banking regulators proposed revisions to the Basel III Capital Rules to implement the Basel Committee&#8217;s 2017 standards and make other changes to the Basel III Capital Rules. The proposal introduces revised credit risk, equity risk, operational risk, credit valuation adjustment risk, and market risk requirements, among other changes. However, the revised capital requirements of the proposed rule would not apply to the Company or Old National Bank because they have less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets and trading assets and liabilities below the threshold for market risk requirements. 

Prompt Corrective Action . The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;) requires the federal banking agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; for depository institutions that do not meet the minimum capital requirements described above. The FDIA includes the following five capital categories: &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; An insured depository institution is considered: 

&#8226; &#8220;Well-capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

&#8226; &#8220;Adequately capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; 

&#8226; &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a CET1 capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%. 

&#8226; &#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, a CET1 capital ratio of less than 3.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%. 

&#8226; &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution&#8217;s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating for certain matters. A bank&#8217;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank&#8217;s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. As of December 31, 2023, Old National Bank&#8217;s capital ratios were all in excess of the minimum requirements for &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; status. 

The federal banking regulators must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are less than adequately capitalized, with supervisory actions progressively becoming more punitive as the institution&#8217;s capital category declines. Supervisory actions include: (i) restrictions on payment of capital distributions and management fees, (ii) requirements that a federal bank regulator monitor the condition of the institution and its efforts to restore its capital, (iii) submission of a capital restoration plan, (iv) restrictions on the growth of the institution&#8217;s assets and (v) requirements for prior regulatory approval of certain expansion proposals. A bank that is &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; will be subject to further restrictions and generally will be placed in conservatorship or receivership within 90 days. 

The FDIA prohibits an insured depository institution from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the bank&#8217;s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless it is well-capitalized or is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A depository institution that is adequately capitalized and accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposits in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market areas. 

The FDIA&#8217;s prompt corrective action provisions apply only to depository institutions, and not to bank holding companies. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s regulations, a bank holding company is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if the bank holding company (i) has a total risk based capital ratio of at least 10%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and (iii) is not subject to any written agreement order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. Although prompt corrective action regulations apply only to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies, a bank that is required to submit a capital restoration plan generally must concurrently submit a performance guarantee by its parent holding company. The liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to the lesser of five percent of the bank&#8217;s assets at the time it became &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; or the amount needed to comply. 

Dividends Limitation s . A substantial portion of Old National Bancorp&#8217;s revenue is derived from dividends paid to it by Old National Bank. Under OCC regulations, national banks generally may not declare a dividend in excess of the bank&#8217;s undivided profits or, absent OCC approval, if the total amount of dividends declared by the national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of the national bank&#8217;s retained net income year-to-date combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. National banks also are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividend if, after making the dividend, the national bank would be considered &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; (as defined by 

reference to other OCC regulations). The OCC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a national bank, such as Old National Bank, from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, Old National Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends is restricted if it does not maintain the capital conservation buffer described under &#8220;&#8212;Capital Adequacy&#8212;Capital Requirements&#8221; above. 

In addition, the FDIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; as described under &#8220;&#8212;Capital Adequacy&#8212;Prompt Corrective Action&#8221; above. 

Transactions with Affiliates. Any transactions between Old National Bank and its subsidiaries and Old National Bancorp or any other subsidiary of Old National Bancorp are regulated under federal banking law. The Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative and qualitative requirements and collateral requirements on covered transactions by Old National Bank with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates, and generally requires those transactions to be on terms at least as favorable to Old National Bank as would be a transaction conducted between unaffiliated third-parties. Covered transactions are defined by statute to include: 

&#8226; A loan or extension of credit. 

&#8226; A purchase of securities issued by an affiliate. 

&#8226; A purchase of assets from an affiliate, unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve. 

&#8226; Certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate. 

&#8226; The acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for any loan. 

&#8226; The issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit on behalf of or for the benefit of an affiliate. 

In general, any such transaction by Old National Bank or its subsidiaries must be limited to certain thresholds on an individual and aggregate basis and, credit transactions with, or for the benefit of, an affiliate must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral. 

Federal law also limits Old National Bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers, and stockholders who own more than 10% of Common Stock, as well as to entities controlled by such persons. Among other things, any such extension of credit is required to be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons. In addition, the terms of such extensions of credit may not involve more than the normal risk of non-repayment or present other unfavorable features and may not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons individually and in the aggregate. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The CRA requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low-income and moderate-income individuals and small businesses in those communities. Federal and state regulators conduct CRA examinations on a regular basis to assess the performance of financial institutions and assign one of four ratings to the institution&#8217;s record of meeting the credit needs of its community. Bank regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed merger or acquisition. Old National Bank received a rating of &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its latest CRA examination. 

In October 2023, the OCC, together with the Federal Reserve and FDIC, issued a joint final rule to modernize the CRA regulatory framework. The final rule is intended, among other things, to adapt to changes in the banking industry, including the expanded role of mobile and online banking, and to tailor performance standards to account for differences in bank size and business models. The final rule introduces new tests under which the performance of banks with over $2 billion in assets will be assessed. The new rule also includes data collection and reporting requirements, some of which are applicable only to banks with over $10 billion in assets, such as Old National Bank. Most provisions of the final rule will become effective on January 1, 2026, and the data reporting requirements will become effective on January 1, 2027. 

Deposit Insurance . Substantially all of the deposits of Old National Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) which is administered by the FDIC. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution engaged or is engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC or written agreement entered into with the FDIC. 

FDIC assessment rates for large institutions that have more than $10 billion of assets, such as Old National Bank, are calculated based on a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; methodology, based primarily on the difference between the institution&#8217;s average of total assets and average tangible equity. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. For large institutions, including Old National Bank, after accounting for potential base-rate adjustments, the total assessment rate could range from 1.5 to 40 basis points on an annualized basis. 

In October 2022, the FDIC finalized a rule that increased the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules for all insured depository institutions by 2 basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The increased assessment rate is intended to improve the likelihood that the DIF reserve ratio would reach the required minimum of 1.35 percent by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028. 

On November 16, 2023, the FDIC finalized a rule that imposes special assessments to recover the losses to the DIF resulting from the FDIC&#8217;s use, in March 2023, of the systemic risk exception to the least-cost resolution test under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in connection with the receiverships of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. The FDIC estimated in approving the rule that those assessed losses total approximately $16.3 billion. The rule provides that this loss estimate will be periodically adjusted, which will affect the amount of the special assessment. Under the rule, the assessment base is the estimated uninsured deposits that an insured depository institution (&#8220;IDI&#8221;) reported in its December 31, 2022 Call Report, excluding the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits. The special assessments will be collected at an annual rate of approximately 13.4 basis points per year (3.36 basis points per quarter) over eight quarters in 2024 and 2025, with the first assessment period beginning January 1, 2024. Because the estimated loss pursuant to the systemic risk determination will be periodically adjusted, the FDIC retains the ability to cease collection early, extend the special assessment collection period and impose a final shortfall special assessment on a one-time basis. In its December 31, 2022 Call Report, Old National Bank reported estimated uninsured deposits of approximately $12.0 billion. The Company expects the special assessments to be tax deductible. The total of the special assessments for Old National Bank is estimated at $19.1 million, and such amount was recorded as an expense in the quarter the rule was finalized (the quarter ending December 31, 2023). 

Depositor Preference . The FDIA provides that, in the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States, and the parent bank holding company with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions . Generally, a bank is prohibited from extending credit, leasing or selling property, furnishing any service or fixing or varying the consideration for any of the foregoing on the condition that (i) the customer obtains additional credit, property or services from the bank&#8217;s parent holding company or any subsidiary of the holding company, or (ii) the customer will not obtain credit, property or services from a competitor of the bank or its affiliates (except to the extent the restriction is a reasonable condition imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended). 

Employee Incentive Compensation . Under regulatory guidance applicable to all banking organizations, incentive compensation policies must be consistent with safety and soundness principles. Under this guidance, financial institutions must review their compensation programs to ensure that they: (i) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward and that do not encourage imprudent risk, (ii) are compatible with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) are supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the banking organization&#8217;s board of directors. Monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization and its use of incentive compensation. 

During 2016, the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC proposed revised rules on incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion of total assets (including the Company and Old National Bank). These proposed rules have not been finalized. 

In October 2022, the SEC adopted a final rule directing national securities exchanges and associations, including NASDAQ, to implement listing standards that require all listed companies to adopt policies mandating the recovery or &#8220;clawback&#8221; of excess incentive-based compensation earned by a current or former executive officer during the three fiscal years preceding a required accounting restatement of financial statements, including to correct an error 

that would result in a material misstatement if the error were corrected in the current period. The excess compensation would be based on the amount the executive officer would have received had the incentive-based compensation been determined using the restated financial statements. NASDAQ&#8217;s listing standards pursuant to the SEC&#8217;s rule became effective October 2, 2023. The Company&#8217;s clawback policy adopted in accordance with these listing standards is included as Exhibit 97. 

Cybersecurity. The federal banking regulators regularly issue new guidance and standards, and update existing guidance and standards, regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management among financial institutions. Financial institutions are expected to comply with such guidance and standards and to accordingly develop appropriate security controls and risk management processes. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity in those areas to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which the Company operates. 

In November 2021, the United States federal bank regulatory agencies adopted a rule regarding notification requirements for banking organizations related to significant computer security incidents. Under this rule, a bank holding company, such as Old National Bancorp, and a national bank, such as Old National Bank, are required to notify the Federal Reserve or OCC, respectively, within 36 hours of incidents that have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations of the banking organization, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. 

In July 2023, the SEC issued a final rule that requires registrants, including the Company, to (i) report material cybersecurity incidents on Form 8-K within four business days of their being deemed material; (ii) include updated disclosures in Forms 10-K about a registrant&#8217;s cybersecurity risk management and strategy, management&#8217;s role in assessing and managing material cybersecurity risks, and the board of directors&#8217; oversight of cybersecurity risks; and (iii) present the disclosures in inline XBRL. 

Safety and Soundness Standards. In accordance with the FDIA, the federal banking agencies adopted safety and soundness guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, cybersecurity, liquidity, data protection, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, compensation, fees, and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify, monitor, and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder. In addition, regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies authorize, but do not require, an agency to order that an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, the institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing corrective actions and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; provisions of FDIA. If the institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties and cease and desist orders. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System. Old National Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. As a member of the FHLBI, Old National Bank is required to acquire and hold a minimum amount of shares of capital stock of the FHLBI based on, among other things, the amounts of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities held by Old National Bank, outstanding borrowings from the FHLBI and the outstanding principal balance of &#8220;Acquired Member Assets&#8221;, as defined by the FHLBI. As of December 31, 2023, Old National Bank was in compliance with the minimum stock ownership requirement. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards. The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (&#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;), directs the Federal Reserve to monitor emerging risks to financial stability and enact enhanced supervision and prudential standards. As a bank holding company with less than $100 billion of total consolidated assets, the Dodd Frank Act&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards generally are not 

applicable to the Company. Prior to the passage of EGRRCPA, Federal Reserve rules required publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more of total consolidated assets to establish risk committees. Under the EGRRCPA and its implementing regulations, publicly traded bank holding companies with between $10 billion and $50 billion of total consolidated assets, including the Company, are no longer required to maintain a risk committee. The Company has determined, however, that it will retain its risk committee. In addition, the OCC, as the regulator of national banks, has issued guidelines for national banks with more than $50 billion in assets that establish certain standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework. These standards will become applicable to Old National Bank once it has $50 billion in assets. 

Resolution Planning. The FDIC has required IDIs with more than $50 billion in total consolidated assets to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution&#8217;s failure. In 2018, the FDIC issued a moratorium on resolution plans for IDIs with more than $50 billion in assets. The moratorium is still in effect for IDIs with more than $50 billion but less than $100 billion in assets. On August 29, 2023, the FDIC proposed amendments to the resolution planning requirements for IDIs with $50 billion or more in total assets. The amendments would require IDIs with between $50 billion and $100 billion in assets to submit informational filings on a two-year cycle, with an interim supplement updating key information submitted in the off years. If adopted, these amendments will become applicable to Old National Bank should its assets exceed $50 billion. 

Volcker Rule. The so-called &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; generally restricts the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, including Old National Bank, to sponsor or invest in hedge funds and private equity funds or to engage in proprietary trading. The Company generally does not engage in the businesses prohibited by the Volcker Rule; therefore, the Volcker Rule does not have a material effect on the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. 

Climate-Related and Other ESG Developments. In recent years, federal, state, and international lawmakers and regulators have increased their focus on financial institutions&#8217; and other companies&#8217; risk oversight, disclosures, and practices in connection with climate change and other environmental, social, and governance (&#8220;ESG&#8221;) matters. For example, on March 21, 2022, the SEC issued a proposed rule, which has not yet been finalized, on the enhancement and standardization of climate-related disclosures for investors. The proposed rule would require public issuers, including the Company, to significantly expand the scope of climate-related disclosures in their SEC filings. The SEC has also announced plans to propose rules to require enhanced disclosure regarding human capital management and board diversity for public issuers. In addition, several states in which the Company operates have enacted or proposed statutes or regulations addressing climate change and other ESG issues. 

Future Legislation and Regulation. In addition to the specific legislation and regulations described above, various laws and regulations are being considered by federal and state governments and regulatory agencies. Changes in law or regulation, or in the manner in which existing regulations are applied, may change the Company&#8217;s and Old National Bank&#8217;s operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways and may increase reporting requirements and compliance costs. These changes could increase the cost of doing business, increase the Company&#8217;s expenses, decrease the Company&#8217;s revenue, limit or expand permissible activities or change the activities in which the Company chooses to engage, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions in ways that could adversely affect the Company and Old National Bank. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

All reports filed electronically by Old National with the SEC, including the annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements, other information and amendments to those reports filed or furnished (as applicable), are accessible at no cost on Old National&#8217;s website at www.oldnational.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically submitting such materials to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

