 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to &#8220;State Street,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with $38.79 trillion of AUC/A and $3.47 trillion of AUM as of December 31, 2020. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had consolidated total assets of $314.71 billion, consolidated total deposits of $239.80 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $26.20 billion and over 39,000 employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. 

On the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit 

Committee, the Executive Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance." 

We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are available on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website under "Filings and Reports." 

We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary under Item 8 in this Form 10-K. 

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 

Overview 

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. 

Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. 

LINES OF BUSINESS 

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. 

Investment Servicing 

Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a 

State Street Corporation | 6 

global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. 

Our Investment Servicing products and services include: custody; product accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by non-U.S. regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance and enhanced custody products; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors. 

Included within our Investment Servicing line of business is Charles River Systems, Inc. (CRD), which we acquired in October 2018. The Charles River Investment Management solution is a technology offering which is designed to automate and simplify the institutional investment process across asset classes, from portfolio management and risk analytics through trading and post-trade settlement, with integrated compliance and managed data throughout. With the acquisition of CRD, we took the first step in building our front-to-back platform, State Street AlphaSM (State Street Alpha). Today, our State Street Alpha platform combines portfolio management, trading and execution, advanced data aggregation, analytics and compliance tools, and integration with other industry platforms and providers. 

We provide some or all of the Investment Servicing integrated products and services to clients in the U.S. and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, South Korea and the U.K. As of December 31, 2020, we serviced AUC/A of approximately $28.25 trillion in the Americas, approximately $8.10 trillion in Europe and the Middle East and approximately $2.45 trillion in the Asia-Pacific region 1 . 

Investment Management 

Our Investment Management line of business , through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum for equity, fixed income and cash assets, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth 

of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and Global Fiduciary Solutions (formerly Outsourced Chief Investment Officer). State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR &#174; ETF brand. While management fees are primarily determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including the benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. As of December 31, 2020, State Street Global Advisors had AUM of approximately $3.47 trillion. 

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under &#8220;Line of Business Information&#8221; included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is included in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

COMPETITION 

We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business globally. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytics businesses, business service and software companies and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. 

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. Technological expertise, economies of scale, required levels of capital, pricing, quality and scope of services, and sales and marketing are critical to our Investment Servicing line of business. For our Investment Management line of business, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service, price, efficiency of our products and services, and performance. 

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to implement efficiencies into our operational processes, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to integrate existing and future products and services effectively into State Street Alpha, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. 

We are a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) and are subject to extensive 

1 Geographic mix is generally based on the domicile of the entity servicing the funds and is not necessarily representative of the underlying asset mix. 

State Street Corporation | 7 

regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities. Most other financial institutions designated as systemically important have substantially greater financial resources and a broader base of operations than we do and are, consequently, in a better competitive position to manage and bear the costs of this enhanced regulatory requirement. See "Supervision and Regulation" in this Item for more information. 

HUMAN RESOURCES 

Our employees are a core asset and a key driver of our long-term performance. Our employees drive the company&#8217;s value proposition, innovate better ways to serve our clients and act as custodians of our reputation. We seek to empower our employees by providing development and learning opportunities to keep our personnel engaged and help our teams reach their full potential, by promoting an inclusive and diverse workplace and by improving productivity and efficiency. We first measure our executives&#8217; business and technical performance, and then may further adjust their compensation, based on their risk performance and their performance against critical leadership behaviors and culture traits that align with our human capital management strategy. 

In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on how we managed our human capital. Nearly all of our workforce began working remotely, reaching approximately 90% in April 2020, and we instituted safety protocols and procedures for the essential employees who returned to work on site. During this period of uncertainty for our employees, we committed in the first quarter of 2020 that no workforce reductions would occur in 2020, other than for performance or conduct reasons. Due to the net impact of hiring and attrition levels, both of which we monitor closely, our workforce at the end of 2020 was up 1% compared to 2019 at approximately 39,000 employees, 67% of whom are located outside the U.S. Moreover, approximately 90% of responding employees indicated during an all-employee survey that they were proud of the way the company is responding to the crisis. 

Reflecting the key role of human capital in our business strategy, in 2020, we renamed the Board of Directors&#8217; Executive Compensation Committee as the Human Resources Committee and highlighted in its charter the Committee&#8217;s oversight responsibilities for human capital management, including recruitment, retention and inclusion and diversity initiatives. We also established the Enterprise Talent Management Committee, a management-level committee, consisting of senior leaders of our organization, which 

oversees our global business activities. The Enterprise Talent Management Committee provides leadership, input and advisory oversight for all aspects of our global talent related initiatives that support achievement of our strategic priority to become a high-performing organization. 

Our Culture and Values 

Our culture and values help to define us as a company and are embodied in the following culture traits we expect of our employees: 

&#8226; Choose to Own It; 

&#8226; Break Through Silos; 

&#8226; Deliver Results with Integrity and Speed; 

&#8226; Do Better Every Day; and 

&#8226; Care for Our Colleagues, Clients and Community. 

We believe that an inclusive and diverse culture where all employees feel valued and engaged makes State Street a desirable place to work, helps us to attract key talent and retain employees as they grow in their careers and fosters an environment that enhances each individual&#8217;s productivity and professional satisfaction. 

The integrity and ethical decision-making of our employees is also paramount for our culture. We encourage employees to speak up if they see behavior that is inconsistent with our Standard of Conduct and values, and we provide multiple channels for them to do so. Our goal is to promote ethical conduct by treating minor policy breaches as learning opportunities, with major policy breaches and misconduct treated promptly, professionally, and seriously. 

Compensation Philosophy 

Our overall aim with respect to compensation is to reward and motivate high-performing employees and to provide competitive incentive opportunities, encouraging employees to learn and grow in their careers. Compensation is typically comprised of fixed compensation, which reflects individual skills and abilities relative to role requirements, and variable compensation, which is designed to link total compensation opportunities to organizational, business line, risk management and individual performance. Our compensation program is intended to drive our business strategy by differentiating pay based on performance against annual objectives. 

Development and Learning 

Professional development and employee learning are key elements of our talent retention strategy. We seek to align our learning and development programs with our long-term strategy by offering skills enhancement targeting the rapidly changing, technology-centric demands of the financial services industry to our workforce. We also provide 

State Street Corporation | 8 

targeted professional development opportunities and new roles for key talent, which we believe helps to deepen our employees&#8217; skillsets and provides them with a broader perspective on the organization. To help leverage our internal talent, we launched an internal talent marketplace during 2020. The talent marketplace is an innovative way for employees to access new roles, skills, and opportunities, and for managers to recruit internal talent. By broadening every employee&#8217;s access to roles and by showing managers the full breadth of talent at State Street, our goal is to provide better pathways to long-term success for all employees. 

Inclusion and Diversity 

While inclusion and diversity have long been a focus for our company, we are working to accelerate progress against our racial/ethnic diversity goals and build more equity through all of our talent processes and within our communities via &#8220;10 Actions Against Racism and Inequality,&#8221; which we announced in July 2020. These concrete actions are intended to address racial and social injustice by improving inclusion and diversity within our own organization and advocating for the same in our industry. While we have taken many steps to address inequality and racism in our organization, in our communities, and through our asset stewardship program, we have more work to do. This includes our plan to increase the representation, development, and advancement of Black and Latinx employees and working with our Board of Directors to add Black and Latinx directors by 2022. More details on the &#8220;10 Actions&#8221; are available on our website. 

At the end of 2020, our global workforce was 54.5% male and 45.2% female, and women represented 30.1% of our leadership (defined as senior vice president level and above). In the U.S., 30% of our workforce self-identified as employees of color. We also publish our demographic data in our EEO-1 report, which is included in our Corporate Responsibility Report (renamed as our &#8216;Environmental, Social and Governance Report&#8217; for 2020), and can be found in the Values section of our website. 

Organizational Effectiveness 

Driving improvements in both individual and organizational productivity is a key ongoing focus of our overall human capital management strategy. We seek to enhance the value each employee is able to contribute by investing in new technologies, designing more effective organizational structures, improving processes and operating models, optimizing our global footprint, and aligning incentives to outcomes. We believe that improving the productivity of our workforce will yield more engaged and higher performing employees and better products and services for our clients. 

Additional Information 

Additional information on our human capital management strategy, including detailed demographic data, will be contained in our 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, which we expect to make available on our website by April 30, 2021. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act generally limits the activities in which bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries may engage to managing or controlling banks and to a range of activities that are considered to be closely related to banking. Bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as the Parent Company, may engage in a broader range of activities considered to be "financial in nature." The regulatory limits on our activities also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to &#8220;control&#8221; for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control 5% or more of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. 

The Parent Company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company and, as such, may engage in a broader range of non-banking activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly, either de novo or by acquisition, in activities that are defined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature, provided that the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are expected to be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the 

State Street Corporation | 9 

results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may result in restrictions on our activities and may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature. Currently, under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses. 

In response to the 2008 financial crisis, as well as other factors, such as technological and market changes, both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which our business is subject has increased. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. Subsequently, in May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA) was enacted. The EGRRCPA&#8217;s revisions to the U.S. financial regulatory framework have altered certain laws and regulations applicable to us and other major financial services firms. Irrespective of any regulatory change, we expect that our business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

In addition, increased regulatory requirements and initiatives have been and are being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including the implementation of the Basel III rule (refer to &#8220;Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards&#8221; in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section and under "Capital" in &#8220;Financial Condition&#8221; in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III), the European Commission&#8217;s Investment Firm Review and Central Securities Depositories Regulation, as well as upcoming proposals for a review of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive and proposals under the Capital Markets Union Action Plan. 

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. 

Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards 

Basel III Rule 

We, as an advanced approaches banking organization, are subject to the Basel III framework in 

the U.S. The provisions of the Basel III rule related to minimum capital requirements, regulatory capital buffers and deductions and adjustments to regulatory capital were fully implemented as of January 1, 2019. We are also subject to the market risk capital rule jointly issued by U.S. banking regulators to implement the changes to the market risk capital framework in the U.S. 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we, as an advanced approaches banking organization, are subject to a "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of our regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer described below in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. Our risk-based capital ratios for regulatory assessment purposes are the lower of each ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. 

Risk Weighted Assets 

The Basel III rule provides for two frameworks for the calculation of RWA for purposes of bank regulatory compliance: the &#8220;standardized&#8221; approach and the &#8220;advanced&#8221; approaches, which are applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like us. 

The standardized approach prescribes standardized risk weights for certain on- and off-balance sheet exposures in the calculation of RWA. The advanced approaches consist of the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based Approach (AIRB) used for the calculation of RWA related to credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) used for the calculation of RWA related to operational risk. 

In November 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other U.S. federal banking agencies (U.S. Agencies) issued a final rule that, among other things, implements the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), a new methodology for calculating the exposure amount for derivative contracts. Under the final rule, which becomes effective on January 1, 2022, we will have the option to use the SA-CCR or the Internal Model Methodology (IMM) to measure the exposure amount of our cleared and uncleared derivative transactions under our advanced approaches calculation. We will be required to determine the amount of these exposures using the SA-CCR under our standardized approach capital calculation. Due to the nature of our trading activities, the impact of the final rule may have a greater proportional impact on our RWA than on some of our G-SIB peers. In addition, under the final rule we will be required to use a simplified formula to determine the RWA amount of our central counterparty default fund contributions. 

State Street Corporation | 10 

Minimum Risk-Based Capital Requirements 

Among other things, the Basel III rule (as amended) requires: 

&#8226; a minimum CET1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and a minimum SLR of 3% for advanced approaches banking organizations; 

&#8226; a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%; 

&#8226; a minimum total capital ratio of 8%; and 

&#8226; the stress capital and countercyclical capital buffers, referenced below, as well as a G-SIB surcharge and the enhanced SLR (which acts as an SLR buffer) described in "Capital" in "Financial Condition" in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K. 

Under the Basel III rule, our total regulatory capital is composed of three tiers: CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital (which includes CET1 capital), and Tier 2 capital. The total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, adjusted as applicable, is referred to as total regulatory capital. 

CET1 capital is composed of core capital elements, such as qualifying common shareholders' equity and related surplus plus retained earnings and the cumulative effect of foreign currency translation plus net unrealized gains (losses) on debt and equity securities classified as AFS, less treasury stock and less goodwill and other intangible assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities. Tier 1 capital is composed of CET1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital instruments which, for us, includes four series of preferred equity outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Tier 2 capital includes certain eligible subordinated long-term debt instruments. Total regulatory capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. 

Certain other items, if applicable, must be deducted from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, including certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated banking, financial and insurance entities and the amount of expected credit losses that exceeds recorded allowances for loan and other credit losses. Expected credit losses are calculated for wholesale credit exposures by formula in conformity with the Basel III rule. 

G-SIB Surcharge 

The eight U.S. bank holding companies deemed to be G-SIBs, including us, are required to calculate the G-SIB surcharge annually according to two methods, and be bound by the higher of the two: 

&#8226; Method 1: Assesses systemic importance based upon five equally-weighted components: size, interconnectedness, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity and substitutability; or 

&#8226; Method 2: Alters the calculation from Method 1 by factoring in a short-term wholesale funding score in place of substitutability and applying a 2x multiplier to the sum of the five components. 

Method 2 is the binding methodology for us as of December 31, 2020, and our applicable surcharge for 2021 was calculated to be 1.0% based on a calculation date of December 31, 2019. 

Stress Capital Buffer 

On March 4, 2020, the U.S. Agencies issued the Stress Capital Buffer (SCB) final rule that replaces, under the standardized approach, the capital conservation buffer (2.5%) with an SCB calculated as the difference between the institution&#8217;s starting and lowest projected CET1 ratio under the CCAR severely adverse scenario plus planned common stock dividend payments (as a percentage of RWA) from the fourth through seventh quarter of the CCAR planning horizon. The SCB requirement, which became effective October 1, 2020, can be no less than 2.5% of RWA. On June 25, 2020, we were notified by the Federal Reserve of our preliminary SCB at the minimum of 2.5% for the period of October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021, which was later finalized on August 10, 2020. For additional information about the SCB final rule, refer to &#8220;Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends&#8221; in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. 

Under the SCB final rule, a banking organization would be able to make capital distributions (subject to other regulatory constraints, such as regulatory review of its capital plans) and discretionary bonus payments without specified limitations, as long as it maintains the required capital conservation buffer of 2.5% plus the applicable G-SIB surcharge (plus any potentially applicable countercyclical capital buffer) over the minimum required risk-based capital ratios and leverage based requirements. From time to time, under certain economic conditions, banking regulators may establish a minimum countercyclical capital buffer up to a maximum of 2.5% of total RWA. The countercyclical capital buffer was initially set by banking regulators at zero, and has not been increased since its inception. 

Assuming a countercyclical buffer of 0%, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2021, including a capital conservation buffer and an SCB of 2.5% for advanced and standardized approaches, respectively, and a G-SIB surcharge of 1.0%, are 8.0% for CET1 capital, 9.5% for Tier 1 risk-based capital and 11.5% for total risk-based capital, in order for us to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments without limitation. 

State Street Corporation | 11 

Leverage Ratios 

We are subject to a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio and a supplementary leverage ratio. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is based on Tier 1 capital and adjusted quarterly average on-balance sheet assets. The Tier 1 leverage ratio differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the Tier 1 leverage ratio is a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets, while the SLR additionally includes off-balance sheet exposures. We must maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. 

We are also subject to a minimum SLR of 3%, and as a U.S. G-SIB, we must maintain a 2% SLR buffer in order to avoid any limitations on distributions to shareholders and discretionary bonus payments to certain executives. If we do not maintain this buffer, limitations on these distributions and discretionary bonus payments would be increasingly stringent based upon the extent of the shortfall. 

In November 2019, pursuant to the EGRRCPA, the U.S. Agencies adopted a final rule that establishes a deduction for central bank deposits from a custodial banking organization&#8217;s total leverage exposure for purpose of calculating the SLR and which is not applicable to total leverage exposure under the calculation of Tier 1 leverage. This deduction is equal to the lesser of (i) the total amount of funds the custodial banking organization and its consolidated subsidiaries have on deposit at qualifying central banks and (ii) the total amount of client funds on deposit at the custodial banking organization that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts. The rule became effective on April 1, 2020. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, we excluded $76.7 billion of average balances 

held on deposit at central banks from the denominator used in the calculation of our SLR based on this custodial banking exclusion. The TLAC and LTD that State Street is required to hold under SLR-based requirements reflect the exclusion of certain central bank balances as a consequence of the rule. 

In addition, on May 15, 2020, the U.S. banking regulators issued an interim final rule temporarily permitting, until March 31, 2021, banking organizations to exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of the SLR denominator. While we already receive the benefit of excluding central bank deposits pursuant to the final rule implementing the EGRRCPA, we have further excluded U.S. Treasury securities, in the amount of $13.60 billion of average balances pursuant to this temporary relief. See "Subsidiaries" in this section for further discussion of the impact of the final rule on State Street Bank. 

The SA-CCR final rule adopted in November 2019, which becomes effective on January 1, 2022, also requires us to incorporate the SA-CCR into the calculation of our total leverage exposure for the purpose of calculating SLR. 

On April 11, 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed modifications to the SLR that would replace the current 2% SLR buffer applicable to us with an SLR buffer equal to 50% of our applicable G-SIB capital surcharge. The Federal Reserve has not finalized these proposed modifications. 

State Street Corporation | 12 

Selected Recent Regulatory Developments Summary 

##TABLE_START Final Rule Issued 

Final Rule Effective Date Description March 2020 October 1, 2020 The U.S. Agencies issued the SCB final rule that replaced, under the standardized approach, the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% with an SCB calculated as the difference between the institution&#8217;s starting and lowest projected CET1 ratio under the CCAR severely adverse scenario plus planned common stock dividend payments (as a percentage of RWA) from the fourth through seventh quarter of the CCAR planning horizon. The SCB requirement can be no less than 2.5% of RWA. For additional information about the SCB final rule, refer to "Stress Capital Buffer" and &#8220;Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends&#8221; in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. 

September 2020 December 28, 2020 Following the launch of the MMLF program, which we participate in, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule on March 19, 2020 (followed by a final rule on September 29, 2020), allowing Bank Holding Companies (BHCs) to exclude assets purchased through the MMLF program from their RWA, total leverage exposure and average total consolidated assets. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, we deducted $4.2 billion of MMLF program average HTM securities. 

August 2020 January 1, 2021 In March 2020, the U.S. Agencies issued an interim final rule (followed by a final rule in August 2020) that revised the definition of eligible retained income for all U.S. banking organizations, including us. The revised definition of eligible retained income makes any automatic limitations on capital distributions that could apply to us under the federal banking agencies&#8217; capital or TLAC rules take effect on a more gradual basis in the event that a banking organization&#8217;s capital, leverage or TLAC ratios were to decline below regulatory requirements, including applicable regulatory capital buffers. 

October 2020 April 1, 2021 The U.S. Agencies issued a final rule that will require us and State Street Bank to make certain deductions from regulatory capital for investments in certain unsecured debt instruments, including eligible LTD under the TLAC rule, issued by us and other U.S. and foreign G-SIBs. October 2020 July 1, 2021 In October 2020, the U.S. Agencies issued a final rule implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's (BCBS) NSFR in the United States, which will apply to us and State Street Bank. The final rule requires large banking organizations to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is a weighted measure of a company&#8217;s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company&#8217;s equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than the amount of required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. 

November 2019 January 1, 2022 The U.S. Agencies issued a final rule that, among other things, implements the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), a new methodology for calculating the exposure amount for derivative contracts under the U.S. regulatory capital rules. Under the final rule, we will have the option to use the SA-CCR or the Internal Model Methodology (IMM) to measure the exposure amount of our cleared and uncleared derivative transactions under our advanced approaches calculation. We will be required to determine the amount of these exposures using the SA-CCR under our standardized approach capital calculation. Due to the nature of our trading activities, the impact of the final rule may have a greater proportional impact on our RWA than on some of our G-SIB peers. In addition, under the final rule we will be required to use a simplified formula to determine the RWA amount of our central counterparty default fund contributions. The final rule also requires us to incorporate the SA-CCR into the calculation of our total leverage exposure for the purpose of calculating SLR. 

##TABLE_END

State Street Corporation | 13 

As a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Our status as a G-SIB has also resulted in heightened prudential and conduct expectations of our U.S. and international regulators with respect to our capital and liquidity management and our compliance and risk oversight programs. These heightened expectations have increased our regulatory compliance costs, including personnel, technology and systems, as well as significant additional implementation and related costs to enhance our regulatory compliance programs. Regulatory compliance requirements are anticipated to remain at least at the elevated levels we have experienced over the past several years. 

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business, including those that are described above in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section. 

Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same additional capital requirements. 

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to "Capital" in &#8220;Financial Condition" in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity 

In 2016, the Federal Reserve released its final rule on TLAC, LTD and clean holding company requirements for U.S. domiciled G-SIBs, such as us. The requirements are intended to improve the resiliency and resolvability of certain U.S. banking organizations through enhanced prudential standards. The TLAC rule imposes: (1) external TLAC requirements (i.e., combined eligible Tier 1 regulatory capital and LTD); (2) separate external LTD requirements; and (3) clean holding company requirements that impose restrictions on certain types of liabilities and limit non-TLAC related third party liabilities to 5% of external TLAC. 

Among other things, the TLAC rule required us to comply with minimum requirements for external TLAC and external LTD effective January 1, 2019. Specifically, as of January 2021, we must hold 

(1) combined eligible Tier 1 regulatory capital and LTD in the amount equal to the greater of 21.5% of total RWA (18.0% minimum plus a 2.5% capital conservation 

buffer plus a G-SIB surcharge calculated for these purposes under Method 1 of 1.0% plus any applicable counter-cyclical buffer, which is currently 0%) and 9.5% of total leverage exposure (7.5% minimum plus the enhanced SLR buffer of 2.0%), as defined by the SLR rule; and 

(2) qualifying external LTD equal to the greater of 7.0% of RWA (6.0% minimum plus a G-SIB surcharge calculated for these purposes under method 2 of 1.0%) and 4.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR rule. 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio 

In addition to capital standards, the Basel III framework introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the LCR and the NSFR. 

We are subject to the rule issued by the U.S. Agencies implementing the BCBS LCR in the U.S. The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking organizations, like us, to improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from market stress over a 30 calendar day period and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. 

The LCR measures an institution&#8217;s HQLA against its net cash outflows under a prescribed stress environment. We report LCR to the Federal Reserve daily and are required to calculate and maintain an LCR that is equal to or greater than 100%. In addition, we publicly disclose certain qualitative and quantitative information about our LCR consistent with the requirements of the Federal Reserve's final rule. 

Compliance with the LCR has required that we maintain an investment portfolio that contains an adequate amount of HQLA. In general, HQLA investments generate a lower investment return than other types of investments, resulting in a negative impact on our NII and our NIM. In addition, the level of HQLA we are required to maintain under the LCR is dependent upon our client relationships and the nature of services we provide, which may change over time. Deposits resulting from certain services provided (&#8220;operational deposits&#8221;) are treated as more resilient during periods of stress than other deposits. As a result, if balances of operational deposits increased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require less HQLA in order to maintain our LCR. Conversely, if balances of operational deposits decreased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require more HQLA. On May 5, 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a rule that modifies the LCR rule to neutralize the impact on LCR of the advances made by the 

State Street Corporation | 14 

MMLF (and Paycheck Protection Liquidity Facility) and the exposures securing such advances. 

In October 2020, the U.S. Agencies issued a final rule implementing the BCBS&#8217;s NSFR in the United States. The final rule requires large banking organizations to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is a weighted measure of a company&#8217;s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company&#8217;s equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than the amount of required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a U.S. G-SIB, we will be required to maintain an NSFR that is equal to or greater than 100%. The final rule will become effective as of July 1, 2021. The final rule will also require us to publicly disclose our quarterly NSFR on a semiannual basis beginning in 2023. 

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual CCAR framework. The Federal Reserve conducts its own stress tests of our business operations using supervisory models, the results of which it uses to calibrate our annual SCB, subject to a minimum of 2.5%. In addition, under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, we must conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve conducts a qualitative assessment of our capital plan as part of the CCAR process to evaluate the strength of our capital planning practices, including our ability to identify, measure, and determine the appropriate amount of capital for our risks, and controls and governance supporting capital planning. 

On March 4, 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to integrate its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements. The final rule, which applies to certain bank holding companies, including us, introduced an SCB and related changes to the capital planning and stress testing processes. The SCB became effective on October 1, 2020. 

In the standardized approach, the SCB replaced the capital conservation buffer of 2.5%. The standardized approach SCB equals the greater of (i) 2.5%; and (ii) the maximum decline in our CET1 capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario over the supervisory stress test measurement period, plus the ratio of (a) the sum of the dollar amount of our planned common stock dividends for the fourth 

through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period to (b) our projected RWA for the quarter in which our projected CET1 capital ratio reaches its minimum in the supervisory stress test. Regulatory capital requirements under the standardized approach include the SCB, as summarized above, as well as our G-SIB capital surcharge and any applicable countercyclical capital buffer. 

The final rule made related changes to capital planning and stress testing processes for bank holding companies subject to the SCB requirement. In particular, the final rule assumes that bank holding companies maintain a constant level of assets and RWA throughout the supervisory stress test projection period. In addition, under the final rule the supervisory stress test no longer assumes that bank holding companies make all nine quarters of planned capital distributions under stress, although the SCB incorporates the dollar amount of four quarters of planned common stock dividends, as described above. 

The final rule did not change regulatory capital requirements under the advanced approaches, the Tier 1 leverage ratio or the SLR. 

On June 25, 2020, we were notified by the Federal Reserve of the results from the 2020 DFAST stress test, including our preliminary SCB of 2.5%. On August 10, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that our final SCB effective October 1, 2020 is 2.5%, resulting in no change to our existing regulatory capital requirements. 

Although the final SCB rule changed the effect of the CCAR process so that the SCB applied to our baseline capital measures, rather than CCAR, is the source of our stress-based capital requirements, we continue to be subject to capital plan requirements and the CCAR process. Under the capital planning and CCAR requirements, our annual capital plan must include a description of all of our planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any capital qualifying instruments, any capital distributions, such as payments of dividends on, or repurchases of, our stock, and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could affect our consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under the Basel III rule, and serve as a source of strength to State Street Bank under supervisory stress scenarios. Changes in our strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, including capital raises or modifications to planned capital actions, such as repurchases of our stock, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the Federal Reserve if, among other reasons, we would not meet our regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. 

State Street Corporation | 15 

In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends, the repurchase of common stock, or other capital actions that reduce capital by the banking organizations it supervises, including the Parent Company and State Street Bank, if, in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s opinion, the capital action would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary. Our common stock and other stock dividends, including the declaration, timing and amount thereof, remain subject to consideration and approval by our Board of Directors at the relevant times. 

In connection with our 2019 capital plan, our Board approved a common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 (the 2019 Program). We repurchased a total of $1.0 billion of our common stock in the third and fourth quarters of 2019 under the 2019 Program and a total of $500 million of our common stock in the first quarter of 2020 under the 2019 Program. On March 16, 2020, we, along with the other U.S. G-SIBs, suspended common share repurchases and maintained this suspension through the fourth quarter of 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This suspension was consistent with limitations imposed by the Federal Reserve beginning in the second quarter of 2020. 

On June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced distribution limitations for CCAR banking organizations, including us, during the third quarter of 2020. On September 30, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that it would extend the limitations for the fourth quarter of 2020. The limitations prohibited us from making any capital distribution (excluding any capital distribution arising from the issuance of a capital instrument eligible for inclusion in the numerator of a regulatory capital ratio), unless otherwise approved by the Federal Reserve. During the third and fourth quarters of 2020, CCAR banking organizations were, however, authorized to make share repurchases relating to issuances of common stock related to employee stock ownership plans; provided that the organization did not increase the amount of its common stock dividends, to pay common stock dividends that did not exceed an amount equal to the average of the organization&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, unless otherwise specified by the Federal Reserve; and to make scheduled payments on additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments. 

Due to the economic challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve required all participating CCAR banks to resubmit their capital plans under updated scenarios that were released by the Federal Reserve on September 17, 2020. 

We resubmitted our 2020 Capital Plan and received results from the Federal Reserve on December 18, 2020. In addition to providing results, the Federal Reserve also announced modifications to the applicable distribution limitations for CCAR banking organizations, including us, that would be in effect for the first quarter of 2021. The modified limitations continue to prohibit any capital distribution (excluding any capital distribution arising from the issuance of a capital instrument eligible for inclusion in the numerator of a regulatory capital ratio), unless otherwise approved by the Federal Reserve. During the first quarter of 2021, CCAR banking organizations that are U.S. bank holding companies, including us, are, however, authorized to: 

&#8226; pay common stock dividends and make share repurchases that, in the aggregate, do not exceed an amount equal to the average of the organization's net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, provided that the organization does not increase the amount of its common stock dividends to be larger than the level paid in the second quarter of 2020; 

&#8226; make share repurchases that equal the amount of share issuances related to expensed employee compensation; and 

&#8226; redeem and make scheduled payments on additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments. 

The modified restrictions allow us to resume common share repurchases in the first quarter of 2021, and in January 2021 our Board approved a first quarter 2021 repurchase program for the purchase of up to $475 million of our common stock through March 31, 2021. 

When permitted, stock purchases may be made using various types of mechanisms, including open market purchases, accelerated share repurchases or transactions off market, and may be made under Rule 10b5-1 trading programs. The timing of stock purchases, types of transactions and number of shares purchased will depend on several factors, including market conditions and State Street&#8217;s capital positions, financial performance and investment opportunities. Our common stock purchase programs do not have specific price targets and may be suspended at any time. We may employ third-party broker/dealers to acquire shares on the open market in connection with our common stock purchase programs. The common stock purchase program does not have specific price targets and may be suspended at any time. 

The Federal Reserve, under the Dodd-Frank Act, previously required us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests and to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress 

State Street Corporation | 16 

tests under the severely adverse economic scenario. We are also required to undergo an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The EGRRCPA modifies certain aspects of these stress-testing requirements, reducing the number of scenarios in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress test from three to two and modifying our obligation to perform company-run stress-tests from semi-annually to annually. The Federal Reserve adopted a final rule in October 2019 that, among other things, implemented this modification. 

The Volcker Rule 

We are subject to the Volcker Rule and implementing regulations. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited proprietary trading activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule regulations, subject to exemptions for market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging, underwriting and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also requires banking entities to either restructure or divest certain ownership interests in, and relationships with, covered funds (as such terms are defined in the Volcker Rule regulations). 

The Volcker Rule regulations require banking entities to establish extensive programs designed to promote compliance with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. We have established a compliance program which we believe complies with the Volcker Rule regulations as currently in effect. Our compliance program restricts our ability in the future to service certain types of funds, in particular covered funds for which State Street Global Advisors acts as an advisor and certain types of trustee relationships. Consequently, Volcker Rule compliance entails both the cost of a compliance program and loss of certain revenue and future opportunities. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other federal financial regulatory agencies responsible for the Volcker Rule regulations adopted an interagency final rule that revised certain elements of those regulations. The changes focused on proprietary trading, including the metrics reporting requirements and certain requirements imposed in connection with permitted market making, underwriting and risk-mitigating hedging activities, including market-making in and underwriting of covered funds. These revisions became effective on January 1, 2020, with compliance required by January 1, 2021. The agencies responsible for the Volcker Rule regulations adopted a separate interagency final rule in June 2020 focused on the covered funds provisions which generally prohibit any banking entity from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. These revisions became effective on October 1, 

2020. These revisions do not have a material impact on us. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, establishes a systemic risk regime to which large bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as us, are subject. The Federal Reserve is required to tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies based on their size, complexity, risk profile and other factors. U.S. G-SIBs, such as us, are expected to remain subject to the most stringent requirements, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements and single-counterparty credit limits (SCCL). 

The FSOC can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements for SIFIs to the Federal Reserve, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury, can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us. 

Under the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential standards regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, we are required to comply with various liquidity-related risk management standards and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing. This liquidity buffer is in addition to other liquidity requirements, such as the LCR and, when effective, the NSFR. The regulations also establish requirements and responsibilities for our risk committee and mandate risk management standards. 

On June 14, 2018, the Federal Reserve finalized rules that established SCCL for large banking organizations. U.S. G-SIBs, including us, are subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any &#8220;major counterparty&#8221; (defined to include other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs and non-bank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve). In addition, we are subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. The final SCCL rules became effective for us on January 1, 2020. 

The Federal Reserve has established a rule that imposes contractual requirements on certain &#8220;qualified financial contracts&#8221; to which U.S. G-SIBs, including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. Under 

State Street Corporation | 17 

the rule, certain qualified financial contracts generally must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against a U.S. G-SIB, or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB, are limited to the same extent as they would be under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations. In addition, certain qualified financial contracts may not, among other things, permit the exercise of any cross-default right against a U.S. G-SIB or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB based on an affiliate&#8217;s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings, subject to certain creditor protections. There is a phased-in compliance schedule based on counterparty type, and the first compliance date was January 1, 2019. 

The systemic-risk regime also provides that for U.S. G-SIBs deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution&#8217;s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk of the grave threat. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. 

Recovery and Resolution Planning 

We are required to periodically submit a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, commonly referred to as a resolution plan or a living will, to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC under Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. Through resolution planning, we seek, in the event of our insolvency, to maintain State Street Bank&#8217;s role as a key infrastructure provider within the financial system, while minimizing risk to the financial system and maximizing value for the benefit of our stakeholders. We have and will continue to focus management attention and resources to meet regulatory expectations with respect to resolution planning. 

We submitted our updated 2019 165(d) resolution plan describing our preferred resolution strategy to the Federal Reserve and FDIC (the Agencies) before July 1, 2019, and our resolution strategy is materially consistent with our prior resolution strategy. In reviewing the 2019 plan, the Agencies noted meaningful improvements over prior plan submissions. The Agencies did not identify any deficiencies in the 2019 plan, but did identify one shortcoming related to the implementation of 

governance mechanisms. We submitted to the Agencies our plan to remediate this shortcoming in line with the expected timeframe. In addition to the above letter, the Federal Reserve and FDIC jointly issued a final rule that was published in the Federal Register on November 1, 2019. This final rule revised the implementation requirements under the Dodd- Frank Act's resolution planning provisions by means of establishing a biennial filing cycle for the U.S. G-SIBs, including State Street. This cycle alternates between a targeted resolution plan, followed two years later by a full resolution plan. The Agencies have published the scope for the upcoming targeted resolution plan to include the core elements of resolution planning and some specific firm level information, including impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. The next resolution plan is due on July 1, 2021. 

In the event of material financial distress or failure, our preferred resolution strategy is the SPOE Strategy. The SPOE Strategy provides that prior to the bankruptcy of the Parent Company and pursuant to a support agreement among the Parent Company, SSIF (a direct subsidiary of the Parent Company), our Beneficiary Entities (as defined below) and certain of our other entities, SSIF is obligated, up to its available resources, to recapitalize and/or provide liquidity to State Street Bank and the other entities benefiting from such capital and/or liquidity support (collectively with State Street Bank, &#8220;Beneficiary Entities&#8221;), in amounts designed to prevent the Beneficiary Entities from themselves entering into resolution proceedings. Following the recapitalization of, or provision of liquidity to the Beneficiary Entities, the Parent Company would enter into a bankruptcy proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Beneficiary Entities and our other subsidiaries would be transferred to a newly organized holding company held by a reorganization trust for the benefit of the Parent Company&#8217;s claimants. 

Under the support agreement, the Parent Company pre-funded SSIF by contributing certain of its assets (primarily its liquid assets, cash deposits, investments in intercompany debt, investments in marketable securities and other cash and non-cash equivalent investments) to SSIF at the time it entered into the support agreement and will continue to contribute such assets, to the extent available, on an ongoing basis. In consideration for these contributions, SSIF has agreed in the support agreement to provide capital and liquidity support to the Parent Company and all of the Beneficiary Entities in accordance with the Parent Company&#8217;s capital and liquidity policies. Under the support agreement, the Parent Company is only permitted to retain cash needed to meet its upcoming obligations and to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding. SSIF has provided the Parent 

State Street Corporation | 18 

Company with a committed credit line and issued (and may issue) one or more promissory notes to the Parent Company (the "Parent Company Funding Notes") that together are intended to allow the Parent Company to continue to meet its obligations throughout the period prior to the occurrence of a "Recapitalization Event" (as defined below). The support agreement does not obligate SSIF to maintain any specific level of resources and SSIF may not have sufficient resources to implement the SPOE Strategy. 

In the event a Recapitalization Event occurs, the obligations outstanding under the Parent Company Funding Notes would automatically convert into or be exchanged for capital contributed to SSIF. The obligations of the Parent Company and SSIF under the support agreement are secured through a security agreement that grants a lien on the assets that the Parent Company and SSIF would use to fulfill their obligations under the support agreement to the Beneficiary Entities. SSIF is a distinct legal entity separate from the Parent Company and the Parent Company&#8217;s other affiliates. 

In accordance with our policies, we are required to monitor, on an ongoing basis, the capital and liquidity needs of State Street Bank and our other Beneficiary Entities. To support this process, we have established a trigger framework that identifies key actions that would need to be taken or decisions that would need to be made if certain events tied to our financial condition occur. In the event that we experience material financial distress, the support agreement requires us to model and calculate certain capital and liquidity triggers on a regular basis to determine whether or not the Parent Company should commence preparations for a bankruptcy filing and whether or not a Recapitalization Event has occurred. 

Upon the occurrence of a Recapitalization Event: (1) SSIF would not be authorized to provide any further liquidity to the Parent Company; (2) the Parent Company would be required to contribute to SSIF any remaining assets it is required to contribute to SSIF under the support agreement (which specifically exclude amounts designated to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding); (3) SSIF would be required to provide capital and liquidity support to the Beneficiary Entities to support such entities&#8217; continued operation to the extent of its available resources and consistent with the support agreement; and (4) the Parent Company would be expected to commence Chapter 11 proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. No person or entity, other than a party to the support agreement, should rely on any of our affiliates being or remaining a Beneficiary Entity or receiving capital or liquidity support pursuant to the support agreement, including in evaluating any of our entities from a creditor's perspective or determining whether 

to enter into a contractual relationship with any of our entities. 

A &#8220;Recapitalization Event&#8221; is defined under the support agreement as the earlier occurrence of: (1) one or more capital and liquidity thresholds being breached or (2) the authorization by the Parent Company's Board of Directors for the Parent Company to commence bankruptcy proceedings. The thresholds are set at levels intended to provide for the availability of sufficient capital and liquidity to enable an orderly resolution without extraordinary government support. The SPOE Strategy and the obligations under the support agreement may result in the recapitalization of State Street Bank and the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the Parent Company at an earlier stage of financial stress than might otherwise occur without such mechanisms in place. An expected effect of the SPOE Strategy and applicable TLAC regulatory requirements is that our losses will be imposed on the Parent Company shareholders and the holders of long-term debt and other forms of TLAC securities currently outstanding or issued in the future by the Parent Company, as well as on any other Parent Company creditors, before any of our losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of the Parent Company's operating subsidiaries or any of their depositors or creditors, or before U.S. taxpayers are put at risk. 

State Street Bank is also required to submit periodically to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure, referred to as an Insured Depository Institution plan. In November 2018, the FDIC announced that until the FDIC completed revisions to its IDI plan requirements, no IDI plans would be required to be filed. In January 2021, the FDIC lifted the moratorium on IDI plan filings for IDIs with $100 billion or more in assets, including State Street Bank. In lifting the moratorium, the FDIC stated that it will provide at least 12 months&#8217; advance notice prior to requiring submission of an institution&#8217;s next IDI plan. 

Additionally, we are required to submit a recovery plan for State Street to the Federal Reserve. This plan includes detailed governance triggers and contingency actions that can be implemented in a timely manner in the event of extreme financial distress in those entities. 

Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Parent Company, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to the orderly liquidation authority which went into effect in 2010. For the FDIC to be appointed as our receiver, two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board must recommend appointment, and the U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the U.S. President, must then make certain extraordinary 

State Street Corporation | 19 

financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding incrementally, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If the FDIC were appointed as the receiver of the Parent Company pursuant to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers to resolve the Parent Company, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for the Parent Company's failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among similarly situated creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution. 

In 2013, the FDIC released its proposed SPOE strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC&#8217;s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. 

Derivatives 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposed a comprehensive regulatory structure on the OTC derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record-keeping. Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a major swap participant, a swap dealer or a securities-based swap dealer. The CFTC, the SEC, and other U.S. regulators have largely implemented key provisions of Title VII, although certain final regulations have only been in place a short period of time and others have not been finalized. Through this rulemaking process, these regulators collectively have adopted or proposed, among other things, regulations relating to reporting and record-keeping obligations, margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration and the central clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain OTC derivatives. The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities. The CFTC, along with other 

regulators, including the Federal Reserve, have also issued rules with respect to margin requirements for uncleared derivatives transactions. 

State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer. As a provisionally registered swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators. The CFTC has granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation. Under this limited-purpose designation, interest rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank&#8217;s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a number of conditions. For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap dealer regulations. 

Subsidiaries 

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities and have regulatory requirements that may differ from State Street Corporation. 

State Street Bank 

State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch. 

As with the Parent Company, State Street Bank is considered an advanced approaches banking organization subject to the Basel III framework in the U.S. and is also subject to the market risk capital rule jointly issued by U.S. Agencies to implement the changes to the market risk capital framework in the U.S. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, State Street Bank, as an advanced approaches banking organization, is subject to a "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of its regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer described above in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. 

Under the Basel III rule, State Street Bank's regulatory capital calculations, including any additions or deductions from capital for regulatory purposes, are consistent with the calculations of the Parent Company. 

State Street Corporation | 20 

Similar to our Parent Company, State Street Bank is subject to the Tier 1 leverage ratio and the supplementary leverage ratio. However, as State Street Bank is the insured depository institution subsidiary of one of the eight US G-SIBs, it is required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% and a minimum SLR of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. 

Furthermore, for the purposes of calculating the SLR ratio, State Street Bank is similarly subject to a final rule adopted by the U.S. Agencies that establishes a deduction for central bank deposits from a custodial banking organization&#8217;s total leverage exposure. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, State Street Bank excluded $76.7 billion of average balances held on deposit at central banks from the denominator used in the calculation of our SLR based on this custodial banking exclusion. In addition, State Street Bank is temporarily permitted, until March 31, 2021, to elect to exclude U.S. Treasury securities from the calculation of the SLR denominator, provided that, in order to make such an election, it must request regulatory approval before making capital distributions, including paying dividends to its parent company, as long as the exclusion is in effect. State Street Bank elected not to take this temporary exclusion and accordingly did not exclude U.S. Treasury securities from the calculation of the SLR denominator. 

Pursuant to the BCBS NSFR final rule, as a subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB, State Street Bank will be similarly required to maintain an NSFR that is equal to or greater than 100%. 

We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our subsidiaries, on the other. Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates generally are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, are limited in the aggregate for all affiliates to 20% of State Street Bank's capital and surplus, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements. Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized. In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits similar transactions between the Parent Company or any of its affiliates and covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor and other covered funds organized and 

offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the Volcker Rule regulations. 

Federal law also requires that certain transactions by a bank with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies. Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. 

State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. Federal law provides for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC. 

Other Subsidiaries 

Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the OCC, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate. 

Our subsidiaries, State Street Global Advisors FM and State Street Global Advisors Ltd., act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. State Street Global Advisors FM, incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading adviser and pool operator. State Street Global Advisors Ltd., incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. State Street Global Advisors Ltd. is also authorized and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (U.K. FCA) and is an investment firm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive. Our subsidiary, State Street Global Advisors Asia Limited, a Hong Kong incorporated company, is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC and additionally is licensed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong to perform a variety of activities, including asset management. State Street Global Advisors Asia Limited also holds permits as a qualified foreign institutional Investor (QFII) and a renminbi qualified foreign institutional investor (RQFII), approved by the Securities Regulatory Commission in the People&#8217;s Republic of 

State Street Corporation | 21 

China, and in Korea is registered with the Financial Services Commission as a cross-border investment advisory company and a cross-border discretionary investment management company. In addition, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, which is a subsidiary of State Street Bank and a Massachusetts chartered limited purpose trust company subject to the supervision of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities. 

Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), and is regulated by the U.S. DOL. 

We have three subsidiaries that operate as a U.S. broker/dealer and are registered as such with the SEC, are subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC's net capital rule) and are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. State Street Global Advisors Funds Distributors, LLC operates as a limited purpose broker/dealer that provides distributing and related marketing activities for U.S. mutual funds and ETFs associated with State Street Global Advisors. State Street Global Advisors Funds Distributors, LLC also may privately offer certain State Street Global Advisors advised funds. State Street Global Markets, LLC is a U.S. broker/dealer that provides agency execution services. We also acquired Charles River Brokerage, LLC, a U.S. broker/dealer, as part of our acquisition of CRD. In addition, we have a subsidiary, SwapEX, LLC, registered with the CFTC in the U.S. as a swap execution facility. 

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, among others, the U.K. FCA and the United Kingdom Prudential Regulation Authority regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Central Bank of Ireland regulates our activities in Ireland; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority regulates our 

activities in Germany; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier regulates our activities in Luxembourg; our German banking group is also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank under the ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism; the Securities and Futures Commission regulates our asset management activities in Hong Kong; the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission regulate our activities in Australia; and the Financial Services Agency and the Bank of Japan regulate our activities in Japan. We have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations. However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity, costs and risks related to regulation. 

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank&#8217;s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined in the relevant banking regulations, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. 

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, neither of which is subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries. 

Additionally, Massachusetts has its own bank holding company statute, under which we, among other things, may be required to obtain prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for an acquisition of more than 5% of any additional bank's voting shares, or for other forms of bank acquisitions. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Transparency 

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and related regulations, which contain AML and financial transparency provisions and which require implementation of an AML compliance program, including processes for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to 

State Street Corporation | 22 

promote compliance with applicable AML laws and regulations. AML laws and regulations applicable to our operations may be more stringent than similar requirements applicable to our non-regulated competitors or financial institutions principally operating in other jurisdictions. Compliance with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and any failure by us to comply with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals, restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation. 

Deposit Insurance 

The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) is funded by assessments on FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. For larger institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base. 

The FDIC is required to determine whether and to what extent adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for &#8220;custody banks" that satisfy specified institutional eligibility criteria. The FDIC has concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks. This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks. State Street Bank qualifies as a custody bank for this purpose. The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including minimum capital ratios. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as our Parent Company, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary. In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of a capital restoration plan if one of our banking subsidiaries were undercapitalized. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, a bank holding company such as our Parent Company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. This requirement was added to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Dodd-Frank Act. This means that we have a statutory obligation to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment. 

Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository Institution 

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository institution&#8217;s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution&#8217;s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution&#8217;s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party. Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. branches and offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, such persons would be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. 

Cyber Risk Management 

In October 2016, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including us and our banking subsidiaries. The proposed standards would expand existing cyber-security regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. Although the FDIC and OCC in 2019 each withdrew 

State Street Corporation | 23 

the advance notice of proposed rulemaking, the Federal Reserve has not withdrawn the advance notice and may still propose such a rule. 

Further discussion of cyber-security risk management is provided in "Information Technology Risk Management" included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K. 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES 

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those shareholders. We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the ECB. 

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 

The following information included under Items 6, 7 and 8 in this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein: 

&#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest income and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 

&#8220;Investment Securities&#8221; section included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 3, &#8220;Investment Securities,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category). 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; section included in our Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4, &#8220;Loans,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status and 

distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates. 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; and &#8220;Cross-Border Outstandings&#8221; sections of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) - disclose information regarding our cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations. 

&#8220;Credit Risk Management&#8221; section included in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4, &#8220;Loans,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for credit losses, and a description of factors which influenced management&#8217;s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information. 

Note 8, &#8220;Short-Term Borrowings,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding our short-term borrowings. 

