 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

State Street is supplementing the risk factors previously disclosed in its 2020 Form 10-K with the following risk factors. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the risk factors included in the 2020 Form 10-K. 

Consummation of our planned acquisition of the BBH Investor Services business is subject to the satisfaction or closing conditions and regulatory approvals, the failure of which may prevent or delay the consummation of the acquisition. 

On September 7, 2021, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement with BBH to acquire the BBH Investor Services business, including its custody, accounting, fund administration, global markets and technology services for $3.5 billion in cash, subject to customary adjustments. The transaction is targeted to be completed by the end of 2021, subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and the satisfaction or waiver of other closing conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that all necessary regulatory approvals will be obtained nor the timing of such regulatory approvals, nor can we provide any assurance that all of the other closing conditions will be satisfied or waived. The failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or the failure to satisfy some or all of the other required conditions could delay the completion of the acquisition for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. 

Even if we successfully consummate our planned acquisition of the BBH Investor Services business, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction or the benefits may take longer to realize than expected. 

Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the planned acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the BBH Investor Services business into our business and realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies. The integration of the BBH Investor Services business into our business will be a complex, costly and time-consuming process, and our management may face significant challenges in implementing that integration, including, without limitation, challenges related to: 

&#8226; retaining the business and revenue from the BBH Investor Services business's current clients, many of which have the right to consent to transfer their business to State Street or to transition their business on short notice; 

&#8226; integrating the BBH Investor Services business's software solutions, including its Infomediary communication platform, with our existing products and services and cross-selling our comprehensive suite of products and services, including State Street Alpha, to clients of the BBH Investor Services business; 

&#8226; achieving the anticipated cost and revenue synergies from the combination of the BBH Investor Services business with State Street; 

&#8226; managing systems, operational and business complexities and costs associated with combining two different global securities servicing platforms, including maintaining service consistency, information security, business continuity and compliance, and controlling operational risks associated with large-scale technology conversions; and 

&#8226; transitioning the BBH Investor Services business's senior management team of investment service partners into roles within our larger company and retaining other key employees of the BBH Investor Services business. 

Any delay or failure in achieving any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition. 

State Street Corporation | 99 

PART 2. OTHER INFORMATION 

