 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors affecting us as set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, on pages 15 - 29 of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The discussion of risk factors, as so supplemented, provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those included in the discussion of risk factors, as so supplemented, or discussed elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC could affect our business or results. The readers should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. 

Risks relating to the impact of COVID-19 

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a material impact on businesses around the world and the economic environments in which they operate. In March 2020, the United States declared a federal state of emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States. The outbreak of this virus has disrupted global financial markets and negatively affected supply and demand across a broad range of industries. There are a number of factors associated with the outbreak and its impact on global economies including the United States that have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on (among other things) the profitability, capital and liquidity of financial institutions such as HUSI. The circumstances around this pandemic are evolving and will continue to impact our business in future periods. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused disruption to our customers, suppliers and staff. A number of states in which we operate have implemented restrictions on the movement of their respective populations, with a resultant significant impact on economic activity in those states. The pandemic resulted in sheltering in place requirements in many states and municipalities and the temporary closure of many businesses which only recently have begun to ease as governments have started to lift restrictions. As a result, the demand for our products and services has been and may continue to be significantly impacted and could vary by region or industry sector. Furthermore, it is unclear how the macroeconomic business environment or societal norms may be impacted after the pandemic. The post-COVID-19 environment may undergo unexpected developments or changes in the financial markets, fiscal, tax and regulatory environments as well as customer and corporate client behavior which could have an adverse impact on our business. 

HSBC USA Inc. 

In the United States, the Federal Government has taken action, and may take further action, to provide financial support to parts of the economy most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The details of how these actions will impact our customers and therefore the impact on HUSI continues to remain uncertain. Furthermore, it is unclear how these actions will ultimately impact the future economic environment, including inflation, interest rates and foreign exchange and our business. The actions taken by the U.S. Government and the FRB may indicate a view on the potential severity of a downturn and post recovery environment, which from a commercial, regulatory and risk perspective could be significantly different to past crises and persist for a prolonged period. An immediate financial impact in 2020 has been higher lifetime ECL driven by a worsening in the economic scenarios used to calculate ECL, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and provisions for risk factors associated with higher risk client and industry exposures and large loan exposures. See Note 6, "Allowance for Credit Losses," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In addition, since we have provided temporary payment relief to borrowers who are experiencing short-term financial problems as a result of COVID-19, a risk exists that these short-term financial problems may become long-term, increasing our risk of credit losses. 

Unprecedented movement in economic and market drivers related to the COVID-19 pandemic dramatically impact the performance of financial models including retail and wholesale credit loss models, capital models, traded risk models and models used in the asset/liability management process. This has required additional monitoring and more frequent testing of models, particularly for credit loss models. It also has resulted in the use of mitigants for model limitations, such as adjustments to model outputs to reflect consideration of management judgment. The performance and usage of models has been and will continue to be impacted significantly by the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. While it is too early to be entirely certain of the magnitude of change required for our models, it is likely that capital, credit risk and other models will need to be recalibrated or replaced. The effectiveness of our models will depend in large part on the depth and length of the economic downturn. 

The pandemic has led to a weakening in gross domestic product and significantly higher unemployment in the United States, which officially entered recession in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, as a result of deteriorating economic conditions, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020 which resulted in the impairment of the goodwill previously allocated to our RBWM and PB reporting units. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations." Additionally, in April 2020, Fitch changed the rating outlook for both HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA to negative from stable, and in May 2020, Standard &#38; Poor's downgraded the long-term and short-term issuer credit ratings of HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA by one notch, following similar ratings actions for HSBC. These changes reflect the economic disruption driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, with Standard &#38; Poor's also noting the HSBC Group's restructuring plan. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations - Risk Management." 

The pandemic may not be fully contained until a vaccine and/or accepted treatment becomes widely available, which might not occur for an extended period of time. Should the current economic conditions persist or deteriorate further, we expect that this environment will continue to adversely impact our business which could include, but not be limited to, further impacts on our income due to lower lending and transaction volumes and lower wealth management revenue due to equity markets volatility and weakness as well as additional credit losses. Other potential risks include the impact of postponed health screenings on the well-being of our employees, credit rating migration which could negatively impact our risk-weighted assets and capital position, and potential liquidity stress due, among other factors, to increased customer drawdowns, notwithstanding the significant initiatives that the U.S. Government and the FRB have put in place to support funding and liquidity. Additionally, interest rates have been reduced since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has and may continue to compress our margins and reduce our net interest income. Further, while we have continued to progress our program for transitioning away from interbank offered rates, including LIBOR, the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our progress as well as the progress of other market participants. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations - Executive Overview." 

Central bank and government actions and support measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may create restrictions in relation to capital. These may limit management&#8217;s flexibility in managing the business and taking action in relation to capital distribution and capital allocation. In June 2020, the FRB publicly disclosed bank-specific CCAR and DFAST supervisory stress testing results along with aggregated results of a sensitivity analysis aimed at gauging the ongoing economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on CCAR firms. The FRB also announced that it will prohibit stock repurchases by CCAR firms and will require all CCAR firms to limit their common stock dividends to the lesser of (a) the firm's common stock dividends last quarter and (b) the average of the firm's net income for the four preceding calendar quarters. These restrictions will continue at least through December 31, 2020 and could be extended by the FRB. In order to make common stock distributions, HSBC North America must maintain capital levels in excess of its regulatory capital minimums and its stress capital buffer. In addition, the FRB has announced that each CCAR firm, including HSBC North America, must resubmit its capital plan later this year based on additional economic scenarios provided by the FRB in September. The FRB will conduct 

HSBC USA Inc. 

further stress tests in connection with its review of CCAR firms' resubmitted capital plans but it is unclear whether the FRB will recalculate the SCBs applicable to CCAR firms based on such stress tests. 

Federal and state legislative and regulatory developments in relation to COVID-19 have also impacted and may continue to impact our business and operations by, for example, requiring forbearance on loans, suspensions of foreclosure sales and imposing restrictions on our ability to charge certain fees. Our participation in these and other measures taken by governments and regulatory authorities could result in potential increased fraud risk as well as reputational harm, and may result in litigation, including class actions, or regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties and fines adverse to HUSI. 

In addition, while we remain committed to our multi-year strategic plan to re-profile our business, the timing of the strategic actions as outlined in our 2019 Form 10-K may be re-sequenced or delayed beyond 24 months as the circumstances around the COVID-19 pandemic continue to develop. We continue to re-assess our strategic plan and may take additional actions in future periods. 

Any and all such events mentioned above could have or continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings (including further credit rating agency changes of outlooks or ratings). The extent of such impact will depend on the outcome of certain developments, including but not limited to, the duration and the ability to control the spread of the pandemic as well as its continuing impact on our customers, vendors and employees, all of which are uncertain. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, it could also have the effect of increasing the likelihood of many of the other risks described in Risk Factors in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

