 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

&#160; 

The following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors affecting us as set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, on pages 15 - 29 of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The discussion of risk factors, as so supplemented, provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those included in the discussion of risk factors, as so supplemented, or discussed elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC could affect our business or results. The readers should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. 

Risks relating to the impact of COVID-19 

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a material impact on businesses around the world and the economic environments in which they operate. In March 2020, the United States declared a federal state of emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States. The outbreak of this virus has disrupted global financial markets and negatively affected supply and demand across a broad range of industries. There are a number of factors associated with the outbreak and its impact on global economies including the United States that have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on (among other things) the profitability, capital and liquidity of financial institutions such as HUSI. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused disruption to our customers, suppliers and staff. A number of states in which we operate have implemented restrictions on the movement of their respective populations, with a resultant significant impact on economic activity in those states. The pandemic has resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities. As a result, the demand for our products and services has been and may continue to be significantly impacted. The circumstances around this pandemic are evolving rapidly and will continue to impact our business in future periods. 

In the United States, the Federal Government has taken action to provide financial support to parts of the economy most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The details of how these actions will impact our customers and therefore the impact on HUSI remains 

HSBC USA Inc. 

uncertain at this stage. The actions taken by the U.S. Government and the FRB may indicate a view on the potential severity of a downturn and post recovery environment, which from a commercial, regulatory and risk perspective could be significantly different to past crises and persist for a prolonged period. An immediate financial impact in early 2020 has been higher lifetime ECL driven by a worsening in the economic scenarios used to calculate ECL as well as higher provisions for risk factors associated with large loan exposures, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and loan growth as clients drew on their available lines of credit. See Note 6, Allowance for Credit Losses," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The pandemic has led to a weakening in gross domestic product and employment in the United States, and the probability of a more adverse economic scenario for at least the short term is substantially higher than at December 31, 2019. In addition, as a result of deteriorating economic conditions, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020 which resulted in the impairment of all of the goodwill previously allocated to our RBWM and PB reporting units. This matter has also resulted in valuation losses associated with certain financial instruments due to market volatility. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations." Additionally, in April 2020, Fitch changed the rating outlook for both HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA to negative from stable following a similar change in outlook to negative from stable for HSBC. The outlook change reflects the economic disruption driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations - Risk Management." 

Should the COVID-19 pandemic continue to cause disruption to economic activity through 2020, there could be further impacts on our income due to lower lending and transaction volumes and lower wealth management revenue due to equity markets volatility and weakness. Other potential risks include credit rating migration which could negatively impact our risk-weighted assets and capital position, and potential liquidity stress due, among other factors, to increased customer drawdowns, notwithstanding the significant initiatives that the U.S. Government and the FRB have put in place to support funding and liquidity. In addition, lower interest rates will negatively impact net interest income. Further, while we have continued to progress our program for transitioning away from interbank offered rates, including LIBOR, the COVID-19 pandemic could affect our progress as well as the progress of other market participants. 

Central bank and government actions and support measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may create restrictions in relation to capital. These may limit management&#8217;s flexibility in managing the business and taking action in relation to capital distribution and capital allocation. In addition, federal and state legislative and regulatory developments in relation to COVID-19 have and may continue to impact our business and operations by, for example, requiring forbearance on loans, suspensions of foreclosure sales and imposing restrictions on our ability to charge certain fees. 

During the first quarter of 2020, we decided to pause the vast majority of head count reductions relating to our restructuring plan due to the extraordinary impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, many elements of our restructuring plan are moving forward as planned, including consolidation of our retail branch network and wholesale back office functions, and the creation of our Wealth and Personal Banking business. While we remain committed to our multi-year strategic plan to re-profile our business, the timing of the strategic actions as outlined in our 2019 Form 10-K may be re-sequenced or delayed beyond 24 months as the situation continues to develop. In light of COVID-19, we continue to reassess our strategic plan and may take additional actions in future periods. 

Any and all such events mentioned above could have or continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings (including further credit rating agency changes of outlooks or ratings). The extent of such impact will depend on the outcome of certain developments, including but not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic as well as its continuing impact on our customers, vendors and employees, all of which are uncertain. 

