 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K contains disclosure regarding the risks and uncertainties related to the Company&#8217;s business under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors . There has been no material changes to the Company&#8217;s risk factors as presented in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K, other than the risk factors set forth below: 

The effects of the COVID-19 disease pandemic will impact the Company&#8217;s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, and the extent and duration of these impacts remain uncertain. In December 2019, COVID-19 was reported in China, which rapidly spread to other countries, including the U.S. In March 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures. On January 31, 2020, the U.S. declared a national public health emergency, and the President announced a National Emergency on March 13, 2020. Many states and municipalities have declared emergencies as well. Along with these declarations, there have been extraordinary and wide-ranging actions undertaken by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 across the world and in the U.S., including quarantines, &#8220;stay-at-home&#8221; orders and similar mandates for individuals to substantially restrict daily activities and for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations. A significant outbreak of epidemic, pandemic, or contagious diseases in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the broader economies, financial markets and overall demand environment for the Company&#8217;s businesses. 

East West Bank is considered an essential business in the seven states where we have branches. As part of the CARES Act passed by Congress in March 2020, various initiatives to protect individuals, businesses and local economies, such as the SBA PPP were established. The Company participates in the SBA PPP, and intends to participate in additional new government-sponsored programs, as they are enacted. In addition, to provide relief to customers during these turbulent times, we are providing payment accommodations for certain small-to medium-sized business, nonprofit organization and consumer customers impacted by COVID-19, and pausing action on collections and foreclosures on certain residential mortgage loans. These initiatives and accommodations made to our customers are expected to negatively impact our revenue and results of operations in the near term and, if not effective in mitigating the effect of COVID-19 on our customers, may adversely affect our business and results of operations more substantially over a longer period of time. 

Further, in order to facilitate our business and in response to enhanced safety measures, the Company has consolidated certain branch locations in the U.S., resulting in temporary closure of certain branches, adjusted branch hours and implemented certain employee travel restrictions. In addition, we have implemented business continuity plans, which include shifting a majority of our corporate and division office functions to work remotely, alternating workplace arrangements such as split work sites and rotating shifts for certain employees to suit the changing business requirements. To date, the business continuity plans work as designed and support our ongoing normal course of business. However, our ability to provide services has been, and may continue to be, to some extent, negatively impacted by interruptions due to illnesses of our employees, or the safety measures implemented to prevent illnesses of our employees, including the potential closure of particular branches and certain employees working remotely. 

We may face increased cybersecurity risks due to the shifting of a majority of our corporate and division office functions to operating remotely in regions impacted by stay-at-home orders. Increased levels of remote access may create additional opportunities for cybercriminals to attempt to exploit vulnerabilities, and our employees may be more susceptible to phishing and social engineering attempts due to increased stress caused by the crisis and from balancing family and work responsibilities at home. In addition, our technological resources may be strained due to the number of remote users. 

The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to adversely affect the ability of the Company&#8217;s borrowers to satisfy their obligations, and because many of the Company&#8217;s loans are secured by real estate, a potential decline in real estate markets could further impact the Company&#8217;s business and financial condition and the credit quality of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio, hence potentially increasing our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Further, the disruptions related to COVID-19 may decrease our borrowers&#8217; confidence or with respect to purchasing real estate or homes and adversely affect the demand for the Company&#8217;s loans and other products and services, the valuation of our loans, securities and derivatives portfolios, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations. 

In addition, recent developments and reports relating to COVID-19 have coincided with heightened volatility in financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide. Our businesses and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions primarily in the U.S. and Greater China. The Company executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and investment banks. Defaults by financial services institutions and uncertainty in the financial services industry in general could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and may expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparties or clients. This pandemic, and any further measures undertaken by governmental authorities to address it, could significantly disrupt or prevent us from operating our business in the ordinary course for an extended period, and thereby, and/or along with any associated economic and/or social instability or distress, have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the earnings impacts from recent and future emergency interest rate cuts could further compress interest margins, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and any resultant economic downturn impacts our business, operations, and financial results is uncertain and will depend on numerous evolving factors that are outside our control and we may not be able to accurately predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic and the governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and the impact of those actions on global economic activity. 

Price Declines in Oil &#38; Gas Sector May Adversely Affect Our Business. The fluctuations in the oil and gas markets have generally been dependent upon the prevailing view of future gas and oil prices, which are influenced by numerous supply and demand factors, including availability and cost of capital, global and domestic economic conditions, environmental regulations, policies of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia, geopolitics, U.S. consumer demand and consumption, transportation industry activity, and other factors. The COVID-19 pandemic, along with recent actions by Saudi Arabia and Russia, have led to a significant decline in oil and gas prices. In consideration of any further price declines in this sector, we have increased our allowance for loan loss against the oil &#38; gas loan portfolio. However, continuous volatility and downward pressure on oil and gas prices in the global market could lead to increased credit losses, which could adversely affect our financial results. For a description of our oil and gas loan exposure, refer to Part 1. Item 2. MD&#38;A &#8212; Balance Sheet Analysis &#8212; Loan Portfolio &#8212; Commercial &#8212; Commercial and Industrial Loans in this Form 10-Q. 

