 ITEM 1. BUSINESS ##TABLE_END

Wells Fargo &#38; Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries. References in this report to &#8220;the Parent&#8221; mean the holding company. References to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;the Company&#8221; mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. 

At December 31, 2020, we had assets of approximately $1.9 trillion, loans of $887.6 billion, deposits of $1.4 trillion and stockholders&#8217; equity of $185 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2020, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the Company&#8217;s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.8 trillion, or 90% of the Company&#8217;s assets. 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available for free at www.wellsfargo.com/about/investor-relations/filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also available for free on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov 1 . 

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

General 

We are a leading financial services company that provides a diversified set of banking, investment and mortgage products and services, as well as consumer and commercial finance, through banking locations and offices, the internet (www.wellsfargo.com) and other distribution channels to individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and in countries outside the U.S. We provide consumer financial products and services including checking and savings accounts, credit and debit cards, and auto, mortgage and home equity, and small business lending. In addition, we offer financial planning, private banking, investment management, and fiduciary services. We also provide financial solutions to businesses through products and services including traditional commercial loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, trade financing, treasury management, and investment banking services. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had four reportable operating segments for management reporting purposes: Consumer Banking and Lending; Commercial Banking; Corporate and Investment Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management. The 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders includes financial information and descriptions of these operating segments. 

Human Capital 

Our people are what set Wells Fargo apart and are critical to our success. Wells Fargo continues to invest in our employees by offering market competitive compensation, career-development opportunities, a broad array of benefits, and strong work-life programs. 

##TABLE_START 1 We do not control this website. Wells Fargo has provided this link for your convenience, but does not endorse and is not responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of this website. 

##TABLE_END

In 2020, we introduced a new set of expectations for everyone at the Company. These expectations guide how we lead ourselves, collaborate with our colleagues, and make decisions. The following expectations apply to everyone at Wells Fargo, at every level, and in every role: 

&#8226; Embrace candor 

&#8226; Do what&#8217;s right 

&#8226; Be great at execution 

&#8226; Learn and grow 

&#8226; Champion diversity and inclusion 

&#8226; Build high-performing teams (for managers) 

At December 31, 2020, we had an active employee headcount of 268,531, with approximately 88% of employees based in the United States. Our global workforce was 54% female and 46% male, and our U.S. workforce was 56% female and 44% male. Our U.S. workforce was 55% Caucasian/white and 45% racially/ethnically diverse. 

Supporting Employees During the COVID-19 Pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded work-from-home capabilities wherever possible, and enabled approximately 200,000 employees to work from home. For jobs that could not be done remotely, we took significant actions to enhance safety, including implementing social distancing measures, requiring employees to wear facial coverings, staggering staff and shifts, and enhancing cleaning protocols in accordance with guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We adjusted our child care benefits in the U.S. and Canada to provide additional resources and flexibility for employees impacted by school closures. We also enhanced our health care and time-off benefits in the U.S. to help fully cover the medical costs associated with COVID-19 and allow high-risk, exposed, or infected employees to stay home without having to take paid time off. At more than 50 of our largest U.S. sites, we launched a temporary on-site nursing service to screen for COVID-19 symptoms and refer individuals for testing. We also took a number of actions to support our employees&#8217; financial security. We made additional cash payments to employees whose roles required them to go into the office to serve customers or other employees. For U.S. nonexempt employees, we temporarily doubled the hourly rate for time worked over 40 hours per week. We also made a $25 million grant to the WE Care employee relief fund, which provided financial assistance to more than 23,000 U.S. and international employees facing COVID-related hardships. 

Promoting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Meeting the increasingly diverse needs of Wells Fargo&#8217;s global customer base is critical to our company&#8217;s long-term growth and success. Wells Fargo values and promotes diversity, equity and inclusion in every aspect of our business. We are dedicated to recruitment and career development practices that support our employees and promote diversity in our workforce at all levels of our Company, including leadership positions. We have a strong record of recruiting, promoting, and rewarding women and racially/ethnically diverse employees at all levels of our Company, including a commitment to increase diverse representation in leadership roles. We use various metrics, including the actual percentage of women in our global workforce and racially/ethnically diverse individuals in senior leadership roles in the U.S. to monitor our progress. As of December 31, 2020, senior management (levels 2-4 down from the CEO) was 48% female 

and 25% racially/ethnically diverse, with 9% Black/African American. In November 2020, we appointed a Head of Diverse Segments, Representation and Inclusion, a newly created role reporting directly to the CEO, which has a broad mandate of driving diversity and inclusion in both our workplace and our business. This mandate included not only the work we do within our existing diversity and inclusion function, but also working with our business leaders to drive investments in products and solutions specifically for diverse populations across our country. 

Pay Equity Review. Wells Fargo is committed to fair and equitable compensation practices, and we regularly review our compensation programs and practices for pay equity. Each year, we engage a third-party consultant to conduct a thorough pay equity review of employee compensation, which considers gender, race, and ethnicity. The results of our 2020 review, after accounting for factors such as role, tenure, and geography, show that women at Wells Fargo continued to earn more than 99 cents for every $1 earned by their male peers. In addition, our U.S. employees who are racially/ethnically diverse continued to earn more than 99 cents for every $1 earned by Caucasian/white peers. These results have remained consistent since we started publishing the results of our pay equity review in 2017. 

Employee training and development. We invest heavily in coaching and training for employees and managers. We believe that when our employees feel properly supported, engaged, and confident in their skills, they are more effective and can provide an even better customer experience. During 2020, we invested more than $200 million in employee learning and development, which included functional training, regulatory compliance, leadership and professional development, and early talent development programs for employees. 

Compensation and benefits. We value and support our people as a competitive advantage. We provide all eligible full- and part-time employees (and their eligible dependents, as applicable) with a comprehensive set of benefits designed to protect their physical and financial health and to help them make the most of their financial future. Our annual investment in benefits programs per employee was approximately $15,700. During 2020, we also raised minimum hourly pay levels in a majority of U.S. markets, with more than 25,000 employees receiving a pay adjustment. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, investment banks and mutual fund companies. They also face increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, private equity firms and online lending companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. 

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of 

depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. 

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

We describe below, and in Note 28 (Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as non-U.S. governments and financial regulators, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to depository institutions and bank holding companies (BHCs) is intended to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company. 

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, make acquisitions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of amounts desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions. See the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; sections in the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information. 

&#160; 

General 

Parent Bank Holding Company. As a BHC, the Parent is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a company with securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. 

&#160; 

Subsidiary Banks. &#160; Our subsidiary national banks, and their subsidiaries, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The non-U.S. branches and representative offices of our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Non-U.S. subsidiaries of our national bank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the countries in which they conduct business. 

&#160; 

Nonbank Subsidiaries. Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in some cases, the CFTC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the various states as well as non-U.S. countries in which they conduct business. 

Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 

&#8220;Financial in Nature&#8221; Requirement. We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our status as a BHC for purposes of other FRB regulations. As a BHC that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. &#8220;Financial in nature&#8221; activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. &#8220;Complementary activities&#8221; are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk. 

FRB approval is generally not required for us to acquire a company (other than a BHC, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company to be acquired has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Prior FRB approval is required before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a BHC, bank or savings association. In addition, the FRB has implemented a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) that also prohibits our ability to merge, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or acquire control of another company if our total resulting consolidated liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than BHCs, banks or savings associations, except that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely related to banking under the BHC Act. CRA performance is also taken into account by regulators in reviewing applications to establish bank branches. In addition, if the FRB finds that the Company or any one of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking under the BHC Act. 

Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a BHC may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the BHC not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless 

the acquisition is the bank holding company&#8217;s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, subject to the same deposit limits noted above, thereby creating interstate branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states. 

&#160; 

Regulatory Approval. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution&#8217;s record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and the risk to the stability of the United States banking system. 

&#160; 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent&#8217;s subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent&#8217;s subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal banking regulators have the authority to prohibit the Parent&#8217;s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Parent&#8217;s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital requirements. For information about the restrictions applicable to the Parent&#8217;s subsidiary banks, see Note 28 (Regulatory Capital Requirements and Other Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Furthermore, under a Support Agreement dated June 28, 2017, as amended and restated on June 26, 2019 (the &#8220;Support Agreement&#8221;), among the Parent, WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the &#8220;IHC&#8221;), Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, and certain other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent designated as material entities for resolution planning purposes or identified as related support entities in our resolution plan, the IHC may be restricted from making dividend payments to the Parent if certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers, or if the Parent&#8217;s board of directors authorizes it to file a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Any such restriction could materially and adversely impact the Parent&#8217;s liquidity and its ability to satisfy its debt and other obligations, as well as its ability to make dividend payments on its common and preferred stock. See the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; sections of the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information on the Support Agreement. 

In addition to these restrictions on the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us, the FRB requires large BHCs, including Wells Fargo, to submit annual capital plans describing planned capital distributions, such as the payment of dividends. The FRB also finalized rules implementing in the 

United States the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision&#8217;s regulatory capital rules, including the reforms known as Basel III, which established various capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations. Moreover, federal banking regulators have finalized rules that require leverage and supplementary leverage ratio requirements for large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions. We are also subject to the FRB's rule implementing an additional capital surcharge on those U.S. banking organizations, such as the Company, that are designated as global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The failure to meet any of these requirements could result in limitations or restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions. 

In addition, the FRB&#8217;s enhanced supervision regulations for large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, impose capital distribution restrictions, including on the payment of dividends, upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or liquidity risk management triggers. For more information on regulations or arrangements that may impose capital distribution restrictions on the Company and its subsidiaries, see the &#8220;Capital Management,&#8221; &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; sections of the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

&#160; 

Holding Company Structure 

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks. &#160; The Parent&#8217;s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other assets from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called &#8220;covered transactions.&#8221; In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank&#8217;s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank&#8217;s capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally must be secured by qualifying collateral. A bank&#8217;s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms. The Company is also subject to lending limits and qualitative requirements on loans to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders of the Parent and its subsidiary banks. 

Source of Strength. The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide the support. 

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent&#8217;s stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency. 

&#160; 

Depositor Preference. &#160; In the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of deposits payable in the United States (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, 

including the Parent, and depositors whose deposits are solely payable at such insured depository institution&#8217;s non-U.S. offices. 

&#160; 

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. &#160; All of the Company&#8217;s subsidiary banks in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same BHC, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by the same BHC. &#8220;Default&#8221; means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver. &#8220;In danger of default&#8221; means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. 

&#160; 

Dodd-Frank Act &#160; 

The Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous rules to implement its provisions have resulted in enhanced regulation and supervision of large BHCs, such as Wells Fargo. This includes, among other things, rules to promote financial stability and prevent or mitigate the risks that may arise from the material distress or failure of a large BHC; enhance consumer protections; prohibit proprietary trading; and implement enhanced prudential requirements for large BHCs regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management, stress testing, and recovery and resolution planning. The Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, has affected, and we expect will continue to affect, most of our businesses in some way, either directly through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks, capital or liquidity. For more information about the Dodd-Frank Act and its effect on our business, see the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; sections of the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

&#160; &#160; 

Capital and Liquidity Requirements and Capital Planning 

The Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity requirements administered by federal banking regulators. The capital rules, among other things, establish required minimum ratios relating capital to different categories of assets and exposures. Federal banking regulators have also finalized rules to impose a leverage and supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions, and to implement a liquidity coverage ratio and a net stable funding ratio. The FRB has also finalized rules to address the amount of equity and unsecured long-term debt a G-SIB must hold to improve its resolvability and resiliency, often referred to as total loss absorbing capacity. 

From time to time, federal banking regulators propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital requirements and related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB closely monitors capital levels of the institutions it supervises and may require such institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets. 

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) requires federal banking regulators to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset 

quality, interest rate exposure, executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 

The FDI Act requires federal banking regulators to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A depository institution&#8217;s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. 

In addition, the FRB&#8217;s capital plan rule establishes capital planning and other requirements that govern capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, by certain BHCs, including Wells Fargo. Federal banking regulators also require stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has sufficient capital to continue to operate during periods of adverse economic and financial conditions. 

For more information on our capital requirements and planning, see the &#8220;Capital Management&#8221; section of the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

Our subsidiary banks in the U.S., including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor and funds the DIF through assessments on member banks. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on an assessment base and an assessment rate. 

The FDIC has adopted a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF management, targeting a designated reserve ratio of 2%. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company's FDIC deposit insurance assessments totaled $650 million. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution&#8217;s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved. 

&#160; 

Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the monetary policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions&#8217; deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

&#160; 

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Affiliate Marketing 

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of 

banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among different affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products and services by those affiliated companies. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing regulations established membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and required our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 

&#160; 

Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires the implementation of policies and procedures relating to anti&#8209;money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. 

Future Legislation or Regulation 

Economic, market and political conditions during the past few years have led to a significant amount of legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad affecting the financial services industry, as well as heightened expectations and scrutiny of financial services companies from banking regulators. Further legislative changes and additional regulations may change our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of doing business, affect our compensation structure, restrict or expand the activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive 

balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether future legislative proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2020 Annual Report to Shareholders under &#8220;Financial Review&#8221; and under &#8220;Financial Statements.&#8221; That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

##TABLE_START 