RISK MANAGEMENT


Schwab’s business activities expose it to a variety of risks, including operational, compliance, credit, market, and liquidity risks. The Company has a comprehensive risk management program to identify and manage these risks and their associated potential for financial and reputational impact. Despite our efforts to identify areas of risk and implement risk management policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that Schwab will not suffer unexpected losses due to these risks.


Our risk management process is comprised of risk identification and assessment, risk measurement, risk monitoring and reporting, and risk mitigation controls; we use periodic risk and control self-assessments, control testing programs, and internal audit reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of these internal controls. The activities and governance that comprise the risk management process are described below.


- 43 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


As part of our integration of TD Ameritrade, the Company has aligned TD Ameritrade’s risk management practices with Schwab’s risk appetite. Our integration work included evaluating new or changed risks impacting the combined company, and taking action through various means. Though integration work continues, the Company’s operations, inclusive of TD Ameritrade, remain consistent with our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework.


Culture


The Board of Directors has approved an ERM framework that incorporates our purpose, vision, and values, which form the bedrock of our corporate culture and set the tone for the organization.


We designed the ERM Framework to enable a comprehensive approach to managing risks encountered by Schwab in its business activities. The framework incorporates key concepts commensurate with the size, risk profile, complexity, and continuing growth of the Company. Risk appetite, which is defined as the amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its corporate strategy, is developed by executive management and approved by the Board of Directors.


Risk Governance


Senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures under which specific business and control units are responsible for identifying, measuring, and controlling risks.
The Global Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior executives from each major business and control function, is responsible for the oversight of risk management. This includes identifying emerging risks, assessing risk management practices and the control environment, reinforcing business accountability for risk management, supervisory controls and regulatory compliance, supporting resource prioritization across the organization, and escalating significant issues to the Board of Directors.


We have established risk metrics and reporting that enable measurement of the impact of strategy execution against risk appetite. The risk metrics, with risk limits and tolerance levels, are established for key risk categories by the Global Risk Committee and its functional risk sub-committees.


The Chief Risk Officer regularly reports activities of the Global Risk Committee to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The Board Risk Committee in turn assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to our risk management program, including approving risk appetite statements and related key risk appetite metrics and reviewing reports relating to risk issues from functional areas of corporate risk management, legal, and internal audit.


Functional risk sub-committees focusing on specific areas of risk report to the Global Risk Committee. These sub-committees include the:


•Operational Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of and approves operational risk management policies, risk tolerance levels, and operational risk governance processes, and includes sub-committees covering Information Security, Technology, Fraud, Third-Party Risk, Data, and Model Governance;
•Compliance Risk Committee – provides oversight of compliance risk management programs (inclusive of Anti-Money Laundering/Sanctions, Conduct, Fiduciary, and Privacy), policies, and risk tolerance levels providing an aggregate view of compliance risk exposure and employee conduct, including subcommittees covering Fiduciary and Conflicts of Interest Risk and International Compliance Risk;
•Financial Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of and approves credit, market, liquidity, and capital risk policies, limits, and exposures; and
•New Products and Services Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of, and approves corporate policy and procedures relating to, the risk governance of new products and services.


Senior management has also created an Incentive Compensation Risk Oversight Committee, which establishes policy and reviews and approves the Annual Risk Assessment of incentive compensation plans, and reports directly to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.


The Company’s finance, internal audit, legal, and corporate risk management departments assist management and the various risk committees in evaluating, testing, and monitoring risk management.


- 44 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


In addition, the Disclosure Committee is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Disclosure Committee reports on this evaluation to the CEO and CFO prior to their certification required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.


Operational Risk


Operational risk arises due to potential inadequacies or failures related to people, internal processes, and systems, or from external events or relationships impacting the Company and/or any of its key business partners and third parties. While operational risk is inherent in all business activities, we rely on a system of internal controls and risk management practices designed to keep operational risk and operational losses within the Company’s risk appetite. We have specific policies and procedures to identify and manage operational risk, and use control testing programs, and internal audit reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of these internal controls. Where appropriate, we manage the impact of operational loss and litigation expense through the purchase of insurance. The insurance program is specifically designed to address our key operational risks and to maintain compliance with local laws and regulation.


Schwab’s operations are highly dependent on the integrity and resilience of our critical business functions and technology systems. To the extent Schwab experiences business or system interruptions, errors or downtime (which could result from a variety of causes, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, technological failure, cyber attacks, changes to systems, linkages with third-party systems, extreme weather, and power failures), our business and operations could be negatively impacted. To minimize business interruptions and ensure the capacity to continue operations during an incident regardless of duration, Schwab maintains a backup and recovery infrastructure which includes facilities for backup and communications, a geographically dispersed workforce, and routine testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans and a well-established incident management program.


Information Security risk is the risk of unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, recording or destruction of the firm’s information or systems. We have designed and implemented an information security program that knits together complementary tools, controls and technologies to protect systems, client accounts and data. We continuously monitor the systems and work collaboratively with government agencies, law enforcement and other financial institutions to address potential threats. We use advanced monitoring systems to identify suspicious activity and deter unauthorized access by internal or external actors. We also maintain policies and procedures, which apply to employees, contractors, and third parties, regarding the standard of care expected with all data, whether the data is internal company information, employee information, or non-public client information. This includes limiting the number of employees who have access to clients’ personal information and internal authentication measures enforced to protect against the unauthorized use of employee credentials. All employees who handle sensitive information are trained in privacy and security. Schwab’s conduct and cybersecurity teams monitor activity looking for suspicious behavior. These capabilities allow us to identify and quickly act on attempted intrusions.


Fraud risk arises from attempted or actual theft of financial assets or other property of any client or the Company. Schwab is committed to protecting the Company’s and its clients’ assets from fraud and complying with all applicable laws and regulations to prevent, detect and report fraudulent activity. Schwab manages fraud risk through policies, procedures and controls. We also take affirmative steps to prevent and detect fraud and report, to appropriate authorities, any known or suspected acts of fraud in accordance with existing laws and requirements.


Schwab also faces operational risk when we employ the services of various third parties, including domestic and international outsourcing of certain technology, processing, servicing, and support functions. We manage the exposure to third-party risk and promote a culture of resiliency through internal policies, procedures and controls, and contractual provisions, control standards, ongoing monitoring of third-party performance, and appropriate testing with third-party service providers.


Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. Models are owned by several business units throughout the organization, and are used for a variety of purposes. Model use includes, but is not limited to, calculating capital requirements for hypothetical stressful environments, estimating interest and credit risk for loans and other balance sheet assets, and providing guidance in the management of client portfolios. We have established a policy that aligns with Federal Reserve guidance on Model Risk Management SR11-7 to describe the roles and responsibilities of all key stakeholders in model development, management, and use. All models are registered in a centralized database and classified into different risk ratings depending on their potential financial, reputational, or regulatory impact to the Company. The model risk rating determines the scope of model governance activities.
- 45 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)




Incentive Compensation risk is the potential for adverse consequences resulting from compensation plans that do not balance the execution of our strategy with risk and financial rewards, potentially encouraging imprudent risk-taking by employees. We have implemented risk management processes, including a policy, to identify, evaluate, assess, and manage risks associated with incentive compensation plans and the activities of certain employees, defined as Covered Employees, who have the authority to expose the Company to material amounts of risk.


Compliance Risk


Schwab faces compliance risk which is the potential exposure to legal or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from the failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, or other regulatory requirements. Among other things, compliance risks relate to the suitability of client investments, conflicts of interest, disclosure obligations and performance expectations for products and services, supervision of employees, and the adequacy of our controls. The Company and its affiliates are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities, including SROs.


We manage compliance risk through policies, procedures and controls reasonably designed to achieve and/or monitor compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These procedures address issues such as conduct and ethics, sales and trading practices, marketing and communications, extension of credit, client funds and securities, books and records, anti-money laundering, privacy, and employment policies.


Privacy risk is the risk of unauthorized collection, use, storage, or sharing of personal information, including data incidents and other mismanagement of personal information. We manage privacy risk through policies, procedures, and controls reasonably designed to achieve and/or monitor compliance with these laws and regulations.


Anti-money laundering/Sanctions risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from the failure to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML) and Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)/global sanctions (collectively, “AML”) laws, regulations, rules, or other regulatory requirements. Schwab manages this risk through daily monitoring, a system of internal controls, education and training for appropriate personnel, and developing risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence and complying with beneficial ownership requirements for legal entity customers.


Conduct risk arises from inappropriate, unethical, or unlawful behavior of the Company, its employees or third parties acting on the Company’s behalf that may result in detriment to the Company’s clients, financial markets, the Company, and/or the Company’s employees. We manage this risk through policies, procedures, a system of internal controls, including personnel monitoring and surveillance. Conduct-related matters are escalated through appropriate channels by the Corporate Responsibility Officer.


Fiduciary risk is the potential for financial or reputational loss through breach of fiduciary duties to a client. Fiduciary activities include, but are not limited to, individual and institutional trust, investment management, custody, and cash and securities processing. We manage this risk by establishing policy and procedures to ensure that obligations to clients are discharged faithfully and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Business units have the primary responsibility for adherence to the policy and procedures applicable to their business. Guidance and control are provided through the creation, approval, and ongoing review of applicable policies by business units and various risk committees.


Credit Risk


Credit risk is the potential for loss due to a borrower, counterparty, or issuer failing to perform its contractual obligations. Our exposure to credit risk mainly results from investing activities in our liquidity and investment portfolios, mortgage lending, margin lending and client option and futures activities, pledged asset lending, securities lending activities, and our role as a counterparty in other financial contracts. To manage the risks of such losses, we have established policies and procedures, which include setting and reviewing credit limits, monitoring of credit limits and quality of counterparties, and adjusting margin, PAL, option, and futures requirements for certain securities and instruments.


- 46 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


Liquidity and Investment Portfolios


Schwab has exposure to credit risk associated with its investment portfolios, which include U.S. agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, U.S. agency notes, U.S. Treasury securities, certificates of deposit, U.S. state and municipal securities, commercial paper, and foreign government agency securities.


At December 31, 2021, substantially all securities in the investment portfolios were rated investment grade. U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities do not have explicit credit ratings; however, management considers these to be of the highest credit quality and rating given the guarantee of principal and interest by the U.S. government or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.


Mortgage Lending Portfolio


The bank loan portfolio includes First Mortgages, HELOCs, PALs (discussed below), and other loans. The credit risk exposure related to loans is actively managed through individual loan and portfolio reviews. Management regularly reviews asset quality, including concentrations, delinquencies, nonaccrual loans, charge-offs, and recoveries. All are factors in the determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses.


Our residential loan underwriting guidelines include maximum LTV ratios, cash out limits, and minimum Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit scores. The specific guidelines are dependent on the individual characteristics of a loan (for example, whether the property is a primary or secondary residence, whether the loan is for investment property, whether the loan is for an initial purchase of a home or refinance of an existing home, and whether the loan size is conforming or jumbo).


Schwab does not originate or purchase residential loans that allow for negative amortization and does not originate or purchase subprime loans (generally defined as extensions of credit to borrowers with a FICO score of less than 620 at origination), unless the borrower has compensating credit factors. For more information on credit quality indicators relating to Schwab’s bank loans, see Item 8 – Note 7. 


Securities and Instrument-Based Lending Portfolios


Collateral arrangements relating to margin loans, PALs, option and futures positions, securities lending agreements, and securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale agreements) include provisions that require additional collateral in the event of market fluctuations. Additionally, for margin loans, PALs, options and futures positions, and securities lending agreements, collateral arrangements require that the fair value of such collateral sufficiently exceeds the credit exposure in order to maintain a fully secured position.


Other Counterparty Exposures


Schwab performs clearing services for all securities transactions in its client accounts. Schwab has exposure to credit risk due to its obligation to settle transactions with clearing corporations, mutual funds, and other financial institutions even if Schwab’s clients or a counterparty fail to meet their obligations to the Company.


Market Risk


Market risk is the potential for changes in earnings or the value of financial instruments held by Schwab as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, or market conditions. Schwab is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates within our interest-earning assets relative to changes in the costs of funding sources that finance these assets.


To manage interest rate risk, we have established policies and procedures, which include setting limits on net interest revenue risk and economic value of equity (EVE) risk. To remain within these limits, we manage the maturity, repricing, and cash flow characteristics of the investment portfolios. Management monitors established guidelines to stay within the Company’s risk appetite.


Our measurement of interest rate risk involves assumptions that are inherently uncertain and, as a result, cannot precisely estimate the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest revenue, bank deposit account fees, or EVE. Actual results may differ from simulated results due to balance growth or decline and the timing, magnitude, and frequency of interest rate changes,
- 47 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies, including changes in asset and liability mix. Financial instruments are also subject to the risk that valuations will be negatively affected by changes in demand and the underlying market for a financial instrument. 


We are indirectly exposed to option, futures, and equity market fluctuations in connection with client option and futures accounts, securities collateralizing margin loans to brokerage customers, and client securities loaned out as part of the brokerage securities lending activities. Equity market valuations may also affect the level of brokerage client trading activity, margin borrowing, and overall client engagement with Schwab. Additionally, we earn mutual fund and ETF service fees and asset management fees based upon daily balances of certain client assets. Fluctuations in these client asset balances caused by changes in equity valuations directly impact the amount of fee revenue we earn.


Our market risk related to financial instruments held for trading is not material.


Interest Rate Risk Simulations


Net Interest Revenue Simulation


For our net interest revenue sensitivity analysis, we use net interest revenue simulation modeling techniques to evaluate and manage the effect of changing interest rates. The simulations include all balance sheet interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities. Key assumptions include the projection of interest rate scenarios with rate floors, prepayment speeds of mortgage-related investments, repricing of financial instruments, and reinvestment of matured or paid-down securities and loans.


Net interest revenue is affected by various factors, such as the distribution and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the spread between yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, which may reprice at different times or by different amounts, and the spread between short- and long-term interest rates. Interest-earning assets include investment securities, margin loans, and bank loans. These assets are sensitive to changes in interest rates and changes in prepayment levels that tend to increase in a declining rate environment and decrease in a rising rate environment. Because we establish the rates paid on certain brokerage client cash balances and bank deposits and the rates charged on certain margin and bank loans, and control the composition of our investment securities, we have some ability to manage our net interest spread, depending on competitive factors and market conditions.


Net interest revenue sensitivity analysis assumes the asset and liability structure of the consolidated balance sheet would not be changed as a result of the simulated changes in interest rates. As we actively manage the consolidated balance sheet and interest rate exposure, in all likelihood we would take steps to manage additional interest rate exposure that could result from changes in the interest rate environment.


The following table shows the simulated change to net interest revenue over the next 12 months beginning December 31, 2021 and 2020 of a gradual 100 basis point increase or decrease in market interest rates relative to prevailing market rates at the end of each reporting period:
December 31,        2021        2020
Increase of 100 basis points        14.1%        14.2%
Decrease of 100 basis points        (4.5)%        (4.3)%
 


The Company’s simulated increase of 100 basis points in market interest rates had a slightly lower impact on net interest revenue at year-end 2021 compared with year-end 2020 due to an increase in the Company’s projected repricing of client deposit rates across higher market interest rate scenarios, which was partially offset as a result of holding a higher allocation of floating-rate assets on the balance sheet at December 31, 2021 relative to the prior year-end. A simulated decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates had a slightly larger impact year-over-year primarily as a result of holding a higher allocation of floating-rate assets.


Higher short-term interest rates would positively impact net interest revenue as yields on interest-earning assets are expected to rise faster than the cost of funding sources. A decline in interest rates could negatively impact the yield on the Company’s investment and loan portfolio to a greater degree than any offsetting reduction in interest expense from funding sources, compressing net interest margin.


- 48 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


In addition to measuring the effect of a gradual 100 basis point parallel increase or decrease in current interest rates, we regularly simulate the effects of larger parallel- and non-parallel shifts in interest rates on net interest revenue.


Bank Deposit Account Fees Simulation


Consistent with the presentation on the consolidated statement of income, the sensitivity of bank deposit account fee revenue to interest rate changes is assessed separately from the net interest revenue simulation described above. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, simulated changes in bank deposit account fee revenue from gradual 100 basis point changes in market interest rates relative to prevailing market rates did not have a significant impact on the Company’s total net revenues.


Economic Value of Equity Simulation


Management also uses EVE simulations to measure interest rate risk. EVE sensitivity measures the long-term impact of interest rate changes on the net present value of assets and liabilities. EVE is calculated by subjecting the balance sheet to hypothetical instantaneous shifts in the level of interest rates. This analysis is highly dependent upon asset and liability assumptions based on historical behaviors as well as our expectations of the economic environment. Key assumptions in our EVE calculation include projection of interest rate scenarios with rate floors, prepayment speeds of mortgage-related investments, term structure models of interest rates, non-maturity deposit behavior, and pricing assumptions. Our net interest revenue, bank deposit account fee revenue, and EVE simulations reflect the assumption of non-negative investment yields.


Phase-out of LIBOR


The Company continues to prepare for the phasing-out of LIBOR, undertaking many efforts coordinated by its firm-wide transition team. The LIBOR transition team is overseen by executive leadership and has organized its efforts to address both client-impacting and non-client-impacting workstreams. From a client perspective, the Company has established pages on the client-facing websites for CS&Co and TD Ameritrade, Inc. to provide information for our clients to help them understand how they may be impacted by LIBOR’s discontinuation. In addition, we maintain internal informational resources for our client-facing employees’ awareness regarding LIBOR’s phase-out.


The Company’s largest exposures to LIBOR are certain investment securities and loans. In purchasing new investment securities, we ensure that appropriate fallback language is in place in the event that LIBOR becomes unavailable or is deemed unreliable, and we have sold certain securities lacking appropriate fallback language. Additionally, in accordance with regulatory feedback, we are limiting our purchases of LIBOR-based securities, and we ensure that any new purchases of LIBOR-based securities were issued prior to January 1, 2022. As of December 31, 2021, substantially all of the Company’s remaining investment securities with exposure to LIBOR provide for appropriate fallback in the event LIBOR is no longer available. Consistent with guidance from the Alternative Reference Rate Committee, a group of private-market participants jointly convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help ensure a successful transition from LIBOR, the Company phased-out the use of LIBOR as a reference rate in new loans prior to year-end 2021, and the Company’s portfolio of legacy loans have fallback language if LIBOR is no longer available.


Certain of the Company’s technology systems and financial models have historically utilized LIBOR, and we have now substantially transitioned our financial models and systems to alternative reference rates. In addition, we have transitioned the Company’s IDA agreement and certain intercompany lending agreements that previously were tied to LIBOR to other appropriate reference rates.


Additional transition efforts to prepare for the phasing-out of LIBOR are ongoing. The floating dividend rates for our Series A, E, and F preferred stock are based on LIBOR. In addition, operational work remains to transition our legacy loan portfolio, in accordance with expected regulatory guidance, to alternate reference rates that are consistent with the fallback language included in the contracts.


Liquidity Risk


Liquidity risk is the potential that Schwab will be unable to sell assets or meet cash flow obligations when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses.


- 49 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


Due to its role as a source of financial strength, CSC’s liquidity needs are primarily driven by the liquidity and capital needs of: CS&Co, TD Ameritrade, Inc., and TDAC, our principal broker-dealer subsidiaries; the capital needs of the banking subsidiaries; principal and interest due on corporate debt; dividend payments on CSC’s preferred stock; and returns of capital to common stockholders. The liquidity needs of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are primarily driven by client activity including trading and margin lending activities and capital expenditures. The capital needs of the banking subsidiaries are primarily driven by client deposit levels. We have established liquidity policies to support the successful execution of business strategies, while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity to meet operational needs and satisfy applicable regulatory requirements under both normal and stressed conditions. We seek to maintain client confidence in the balance sheet and the safety of client assets by maintaining liquidity and diversity of funding sources to allow the Company to meet its obligations. To this end, we have established limits and contingency funding scenarios to support liquidity levels during both business as usual and stressed conditions.


We employ a variety of methodologies to monitor and manage liquidity. We conduct regular liquidity stress testing to develop a consolidated view of liquidity risk exposures and to ensure our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity during market-related or company-specific liquidity stress events. Liquidity is also tested at certain subsidiaries and results are reported to the Financial Risk Oversight Committee. A number of early warning indicators are monitored to help identify emerging liquidity stresses in the market or within the organization and are reviewed with management as appropriate.


Primary Funding Sources


Schwab’s primary source of funds is cash generated by client activity which includes bank deposits and cash balances in client brokerage accounts. These funds are used to purchase investment securities and extend loans to clients.


Other sources of funds may include cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, repayments on loans, securities lending of assets held in client brokerage accounts, repurchase agreements, and cash provided by external financing.


To meet daily funding needs, we maintain liquidity in the form of overnight cash deposits and short-term investments. For unanticipated liquidity needs, we also maintain a buffer of highly liquid investments, including U.S. Treasury securities.


Additional Funding Sources


In addition to internal sources of liquidity, Schwab has access to external funding. The need for short-term borrowings from external debt facilities arises primarily from timing differences between cash flow requirements, scheduled liquidation of interest-earning investments, movements of cash to meet regulatory brokerage client cash segregation requirements, and general corporate purposes. We maintain policies and procedures necessary to access funding and test discount window borrowing procedures on a periodic basis.


The following table describes external debt facilities available at December 31, 2021:
Description        Borrower        Outstanding        Available
Federal Home Loan Bank secured credit facilities        Banking subsidiaries        $        —                 $        63,476         
Federal Reserve discount window        Banking subsidiaries        —                 11,957         
Uncommitted, unsecured lines of credit with various external banks        CSC, CS&Co        —                 1,522         
Unsecured commercial paper (1)
CSC        3,006                 1,994         
Committed, unsecured credit facility with various external banks        TDAC        —                 600         
Secured uncommitted lines of credit with various external banks (2)
TDAC        1,850                 —         
 
(1) In October 2021, the Company increased the amount of commercial paper available to issue from $1.5 billion to $5.0 billion.
(2) Secured borrowing capacity is made available based on TDAC’s ability to provide acceptable collateral to the lenders as determined by the credit agreements.


Our banking subsidiaries maintain secured credit facilities with the FHLB. Amounts available under these facilities are dependent on the value of our First Mortgages, HELOCs, and the fair value of certain of our investment securities that are pledged as collateral. These credit facilities are also available as backup financing in the event the outflow of client cash from the banking subsidiaries’ respective balance sheets is greater than maturities and paydowns on investment securities and bank loans.


- 50 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


Our banking subsidiaries also have access to short-term secured funding through the Federal Reserve discount window. Amounts available under the Federal Reserve discount window are dependent on the fair value of certain investment securities that are pledged as collateral. Our banking subsidiaries may also engage with external banks in repurchase agreements collateralized by investments securities as another source of short-term liquidity.


CSC has a commercial paper program of which proceeds are used for general corporate purposes. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes may vary, but are not to exceed 270 days from the date of issue. CSC’s ratings for these short-term borrowings were P1 by Moody’s, A1 by Standard & Poor’s, and F1 by Fitch at December 31, 2021 and 2020. CSC also has a universal automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, which enables it to issue debt, equity, and other securities. CS&Co maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group of banks as a source of short-term liquidity, which can also be accessed by CSC. TDAC maintains a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $600 million, which matures in April 2022. TDAC also maintains secured uncommitted lines of credit, under which TDAC borrows on either a demand or short-term basis and pledges client margin securities as collateral.


To support growth in margin loan balances at our broker-dealer subsidiaries while meeting our LCR requirements, the Company issues commercial paper or draws on secured lines of credit, in addition to capital markets issuances.


Liquidity Coverage Ratio


Beginning October 1, 2021, Schwab became subject to the full (100%) LCR, which requires the Company to hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 100% of the Company’s projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated each business day. See Item 1 – Regulation for additional information. The Company was in compliance with the full LCR rule at December 31, 2021, and the table below presents information about our average daily LCR:
Average for the
Three Months Ended December 31, 2021
Total eligible HQLA        $        117,507         
Net cash outflows        $        110,405         
LCR        106         %
 


Borrowings


The Company had $4.9 billion of short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and none at December 31, 2020. Long-term debt is primarily comprised of Senior Notes and totaled $18.9 billion and $13.6 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.


The following table provides information about our Senior Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2021:
Par Outstanding        Maturity        Weighted-Average
Interest Rate        Moody’s        Standard
& Poor’s        Fitch
CSC Senior Notes        $        17,768                 2022 - 2031        2.35%        A2        A        A
TDA Holding Senior Notes        963                 2022 - 2029        3.06%        A2        A        —
 


- 51 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


All debt issuances in 2021, 2020, and 2019 were senior unsecured obligations. Additional details of these debt issuances are as follows:
Issuance Date        Issuance Amount        Maturity Date        Interest Rate        Interest Payable
May 22, 2019        $        600                 5/22/2029        3.250%        Semi-annually
March 24, 2020        $        600                 3/24/2025        4.200%        Semi-annually
March 24, 2020        $        500                 3/22/2030        4.625%        Semi-annually
December 11, 2020        $        1,250                 3/11/2026        0.900%        Semi-annually
December 11, 2020        $        750                 3/11/2031        1.650%        Semi-annually
March 18, 2021        $        1,250                 3/18/2024        
SOFR (1) + 0.500%
Quarterly
March 18, 2021        $        1,500                 3/18/2024        0.750%        Semi-annually
March 18, 2021        $        1,250                 3/20/2028        2.000%        Semi-annually
May 13, 2021        $        500                 5/13/2026        
SOFR (1) + 0.520%
Quarterly
May 13, 2021        $        1,000                 5/13/2026        1.150%        Semi-annually
May 13, 2021        $        750                 5/13/2031        2.300%        Semi-annually
August 26, 2021        $        850                 12/1/2031        1.950%        Semi-annually
 
(1) Secured Overnight Financing Rate


During the third quarter of 2021, we completed a debt exchange offer related to certain senior notes issued by TDA Holding for an equivalent amount of senior notes issued by CSC. For further discussion of the exchange, see Item 8 – Note 13.


Equity Issuances and Redemptions


CSC’s preferred stock issued and net proceeds for 2020 and 2021 shown below. The Company did not issue any equity through external offerings during 2019.
Date Issued and Sold        Net Proceeds
Series G        April 30, 2020        $        2,470         
Series H        December 11, 2020        $        2,470         
Series I        March 18, 2021        $        2,222         
Series J        March 30, 2021        $        584         
 


On June 1, 2021, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding shares of its 6.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, and the corresponding depositary shares. The redemption was funded with the net proceeds from the Series J preferred stock offering.


For further discussion, see Item 8 – Note 13 for the Company’s outstanding debt and borrowing facilities and Item 8 – Note 19 for equity outstanding balances, issuances, and redemptions.


Contractual Obligations


Schwab’s principal contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021 include credit-related financial instruments, representing our banking subsidiaries’ commitments to extend credit to banking clients, purchase mortgage loans, and fund CRA investments; payments on short-term borrowings and long-term debt; purchase obligations for services such as advertising and marketing, telecommunications, hardware- and software-related agreements, and professional services; and lease payments including legally-binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. For information on our contractual obligations for credit-related financial instruments, short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, see Part II, Item 8 – Notes 15, 13, and 14, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had total short-term purchase obligations of $484 million and total long-term purchase obligations of $532 million.
- 52 -


THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted)


Schwab also enters into guarantees and other similar arrangements in the ordinary course of business. For information on these arrangements, see Item 8 – Notes 7, 11, 13, 15, and 17. Pursuant to the IDA agreement, certain brokerage client deposits are required to be swept off-balance sheet to the TD Depository Institutions. We also maintain agreements pursuant to which certain client brokerage cash deposits are swept to other third-party depository institutions. See Item 8 – Notes 3 and 15 for additional information on the IDA agreement.