Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to Citigroup Inc., following your requested format:

```
citigroup_inc_2024_Q1

Banking & Finance: Citi Hires Raghavan From Rival JPMorgan Hires Raghavan From Rival
Citigroup named JPMorgan Chase's Viswas Raghavan as head of banking, turning to an old rival to fill a key
senior role at the bank.                                                
Raghavan joined JPMorgan in 2000 and most recently served as head of investment banking. At Citi, he will
run one of the bank's five core businesses and report directly to Chief Executive Jane Fraser.
Raghavan will arrive as Fraser and her management team press ahead with Citi's most ambitious
restructuring plan in years while also working to modernize its technology and internal controls.
His appointment also ends a guessing game on Wall Street; in its search, Citi had reached out to some of the
industry's most prominent investment bankers.                           
Peter Babej, who served as interim banking head during the search, will now follow through on his plan to
retire from Citi.                                                       
Citi shares finished Monday's trading 1% lower at $55.36.               

Citigroup Can Avoid Another False Dawn --- The bank's stock has outperformed in recent months, but
coming reports may be key                                               
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
There are few more dangerous words in finance than "this time is different." But for Citigroup, perhaps it is
safer to say that at the very least, "this time is not quite the same." 
Over the past three months, Citigroup shares have led the way among the big six U.S. global banks, rising
more than 30% in that time. But the bank's stock has trapped bargain-hunting investors before. Back in 2019,
its shares soundly outperformed peers including JPMorgan Chase, with a rise of more than 50%.
Since February 2020, however, it has been the only one of the big six U.S. megabanks to have a negative
return, according to FactSet data. Last year at times it ended the trading day at less than half its tangible
book value, a level it hadn't been below in over a decade. Over this recent span, the bank dealt with major
challenges, including a regulatory consent order, a management transition, a technology infrastructure
overhaul, business exits and a sharp slowdown in Wall Street activity.  
As bank stocks started to recover late last year, so did Citigroup, coming from such a deep discount. Chief
Executive Jane Fraser's long-term strategic plan began to gear up, with eliminations of management layers
and a realignment of units. And when Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason in December told analysts that the
bank was expecting expenses to come down in 2024, it was a strong indicator.
Yet the question remains whether this will be another false dawn. Certainly it would be extraordinary if there
were no setbacks in the bank's plans. Citigroup has at times kept living up to its reputation for stepping on
rakes, and rebuilding a global bank in flight is hardly straightforward. It also is a tricky time for markets in
general after a surprising stock rally in 2023 and a looming Federal Reserve policy pivot.
But the bank remains heavily discounted, still trading at about 60% of tangible book value. So setbacks are
arguably priced in. Something working in the bank's favor is that even some bullish analysts, such as Wells
Fargo's Mike Mayo, aren't basing their calls on the bank hitting its return targets. Those include a
medium-term jump to an 11% to 12% return on tangible common equity, up from 8.3% annualized in the first
nine months of 2023.                                                    
Back in 2019, whether the bank was going to hit its then-target loomed over the shares in what was, in
retrospect, perhaps an unhealthy way. Hitting targets can be signs of fundamental progress; they can also be
artificial goal posts that distract investors from underlying problems and sustainable progress.
The next few quarterly reports for Citigroup might be vital ones. There will be justified focus on updates on
expenses and capital needs. On the revenue side, important things to watch for include continued revenue
growth from its crown-jewel Services business, which does things like payments and custody for corporations
and institutions. Another would be indications of more revenue to come from wealth management, a strategic
priority but one that so far hasn't lived up to management's aspirations.
The danger would be to put too much faith in cyclical upswings, like an improvement in volatile trading or
deal making units. Faster revenue growth would certainly be a huge help for hitting targets, but it alone can't
break the boom-and-bust cycle. Likewise, slower revenue growth also doesn't mean the bank can't achieve
any sustained improvement in returns.                                   
Under Fraser, Citigroup has shown it is at least possible to change the narrative around the stock. But the job
is far from done.                                                       
```