Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to Discover Financial Services, maintaining the original formatting:

```
discover_financial_services_2024_Q1

EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: Discover Finds a Buyer, Nvidia Hits New Heights....

A Bad Day for Tech Stocks Drags Down Wall Street............................................................................................... 3

Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35 billion in
all-stock deal ............................................................................................................................................................ 5


DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES                                             
DFS +13%                                                                
Capital One Financial is taking over Discover. The bank said it will acquire Discover for more than $35 billion
in a deal that would combine two of the largest U.S. credit-card companies. Discover is one of the few
companies in the U.S., aside from Visa and Mastercard, that operates a payments network, a system that
allows businesses to process credit-card purchases. Discover shares gained 13% Tuesday, while Capital
One shares edged 0.1% higher.                                           


Outside of earnings, credit card company Capital One Financial rose 0.2 percent as it moves ahead with a
$35 billion buyout of Discover Financial Services. Discover soared 12.9 percent for the biggest gain in the
S&P 500.                                                                


Capital One said it will buy Discover Financial Services for more than $35 billion, in a deal that will marry two
of the largest credit-card companies in the U.S.                        
Under the terms of the all-stock deal, Discover shareholders are set to receive 1.0192 Capital One shares for
each Discover share, representing a premium of about 27% based on Discover's closing price Friday. After
the deal closes, Capital One shareholders will hold roughly 60% of the combined company, with Discover
shareholders owning the rest.                                           
Capital One is making a big bet at a booming time in the credit-card sector. More consumers are moving from
paying with cash to cards as a result of generous rewards programs and the digitization of commerce -- a
transition that accelerated with the pandemic. A recent increase in credit-card-debt has provided a further
boost to issuers.                                                       
Buying Discover would give Capital One, a credit-card lender with a market value of a little over $52 billion, a
network that would vastly increase its power in the payments ecosystem. 
Card networks are critical to enabling transactions and setting fees that merchants pay when consumers
shop with credit cards. Though much smaller than Visa and Mastercard, Discover is one of the few
competitors to those companies in the U.S., and it is one of a small number of card issuers that also has a
payments network.                                                       
Capital One, the ninth-largest bank in the country and a major credit-card issuer, uses Visa and Mastercard
for most of its cards. The bank plans to switch at least some of its cards to the Discover network, while
continuing to use Visa and Mastercard on others. Those larger networks have more merchant acceptance
abroad than Discover does.                                              
Capital One also plans to maintain the Discover brand on the cards and network -- assuming regulators sign
off and the deal is consummated.                                        
Discover, based in Riverwoods, Ill., is an online institution so the takeover wouldn't come with physical bank
branches, except for one location in Delaware.                          
The deal follows a tumultuous period for Discover that has included increased regulatory scrutiny and a
change in leadership.                                                   

The company disclosed last year that an internal review found it had misclassified certain credit-card
accounts beginning in 2007, incorrectly placing them in the highest merchant-and-acquirer pricing tier. The
company established a liability of $365 million to account for estimated compensation owed to merchants and
acquirers.                                                              
Separately, Discover received a consent order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In October,
Discover said it would address the FDIC order to improve its consumer-compliance operations.
In December, Discover said financial-industry executive Michael Rhodes would become its chief executive
officer and president. He took over from John Owen, who had been serving in the interim after Roger
Hochschild stepped down in August.                                      
Discover has been approached by large banks and technology companies about an acquisition of all or a
part of its business over the past decade or more.                      

Tech companies have been interested in acquiring its network so that they can play a more central role in
payments, but prior senior executives at Discover weren't interested in separating the company's credit-card
lending side from the network.                                          
For Capital One, the deal would also further expand the number of cardholders it will count as customers for
its credit-card lending business. Many Discover cardholders have high credit scores.
Discover also has consumer deposits, most of which are in savings accounts, allowing Capital One to
continue to expand its already large presence in that area.             

Rising credit-card usage is also a boon to the billions of dollars in interchange fees banks collect every year.
The fees are set by card networks and paid by merchants when consumers shop with cards. By owning the
Discover network, Capital One could negotiate interchange fees and other terms directly with merchants for
card transactions that travel over its network, making Capital One more of a competitor to Visa and
Mastercard.                                                             
An acquisition of Discover would rank among the biggest deals so far in 2024. After a lull in M&A activity in
2023 as economic and other uncertainty and increased interest rates took a bite out of the appetite for deals,
volumes have gotten off to a relatively strong start and are up 90% in the U.S. compared with a year earlier,
according to Dealogic.                                                  
```