Introduction
First Horizon Corporation (NYSE common stock trading symbol “FHN”) is a financial holding company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. FHN’s principal subsidiary, and only banking subsidiary, is First Horizon Bank. Through the Bank and other subsidiaries, FHN offers regional banking, mortgage lending, specialized commercial lending, commercial leasing and equipment financing, brokerage, wealth management, capital markets, and other financial services to commercial, consumer, and governmental clients throughout the U.S.
At December 31, 2022, FHN had over 450 business locations in 24 states, including over 400 banking centers in 12 states, and employed more than 7,500 associates.
This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, as well as with the other information contained in this report.
Executive Overview
Merger Agreement with Toronto-Dominion Bank
On February 27, 2022, FHN entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “TD Merger Agreement”) with The Toronto-Dominion Bank, a Canadian chartered bank (“TD”), TD Bank US Holding Company, a Delaware corporation and indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of TD (“TD-US”), and Falcon Holdings Acquisition Co., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of TD-US (“Merger Sub”).
Pursuant to the TD Merger Agreement, FHN and Merger Sub will merge (the “First Holding Company Merger”), with FHN continuing as the surviving entity in the merger. Following the First Holding Company Merger, at the election of TD, FHN and TD-US will merge (the “Second Holding Company Merger” and, together with the First Holding Company Merger, the “Holding Company Mergers”), with TD-US continuing as the surviving entity in the merger.
Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the TD Merger Agreement, each share of FHN common stock, par value $0.625 per share, (“Company Common Stock”), issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the First Holding Company Merger (the “First Effective Time”) will be converted into the right to receive $25.00 (USD) per share in cash, without interest. Because the transaction did not close on or before November 27, 2022, shareholders will receive an additional $0.65 per share of Company Common Stock on an annualized basis (or approximately 5.4 cents per month) for the period from November 27, 2022 through the day immediately prior to the closing. Each outstanding share of FHN’s preferred stock, series B, C, D, E and F, will remain issued outstanding in connection with the First Holding Company Merger. If TD elects to effect the Second Holding Company Merger, at the effective time of the Second Holding Company Merger, each outstanding share of FHN’s preferred stock will be converted into a share of a newly created, corresponding series of TD-US having terms as described in the TD Merger Agreement.
Following the completion of the First Holding Company Merger, at such time as determined by TD, First Horizon Bank and TD Bank, N.A., a national banking association (“TDBNA”) will merge, with TDBNA surviving as a subsidiary of TD-US (the “Bank Merger” and together with the Holding Company Mergers, the “Pending TD Merger”).
In connection with the TD Merger Agreement, TD purchased from FHN shares of non-voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, a new series of preferred stock of FHN (the “Series G Convertible Preferred Stock”) in a private placement transaction having an aggregate liquidation preference and purchase price of approximately $494 million, pursuant to a securities purchase agreement between FHN and TD entered into concurrently with the execution and delivery of the TD Merger Agreement. The Series G Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into up to 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock in certain circumstances, including the closing of the Pending TD Merger or the termination of the TD Merger Agreement.
The Pending TD Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approvals from U.S. and Canadian regulatory authorities. FHN's shareholders approved the Pending TD Merger on May 31, 2022.
On February 9, 2023, FHN and TD agreed to extend the outside date to May 27, 2023. Subsequent to the extension, TD recently informed FHN that TD does not expect that the necessary regulatory approvals will be received in time to complete the Pending TD Merger by May 27, 2023, and that TD cannot provide a new projected closing date at this time. TD has initiated discussions with FHN regarding a potential further extension of the outside date. There can be no assurance that an extension will ultimately be agreed or that TD will satisfy all regulatory requirements so that the regulatory approvals required to complete the Pending TD Merger will be received.
Either TD or First Horizon may unilaterally elect to terminate the TD Merger Agreement in certain circumstances set forth in the TD Merger Agreement.
Refer to 2022 Merger Agreement with Toronto-Dominion Bank in Item 1, beginning on page 15, for additional information.
2022 Financial Performance Summary
FHN reported net income available to common shareholders of $868 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, compared to net income of $962 million, or $1.74 per diluted share in 2021.
Net interest income of $2.4 billion increased $398 million from 2021 reflecting the benefit of higher rates partially offset by higher funding costs. The net interest margin increased 62 basis points to 3.10% compared to 2.48% in 2021. Earning asset yields increased 79 basis points while the cost of interest-bearing liabilities increased 30 basis points.
Provision for credit losses increased to $95 million compared to a benefit of $310 million in 2021, largely reflecting the impact of loan growth and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast.
Noninterest income of $815 million decreased $261 million from 2021, largely driven by lower fixed income and mortgage banking and title income.
Noninterest expense of $2.0 billion decreased $143 million from 2021 largely attributable to lower personnel expense.
Period-end loans and leases of $58.1 billion increased $3.2 billion from December 31, 2021 reflecting commercial loan growth of $1.8 billion, or 4%, and consumer loan growth of $1.4 billion, or 12%. Commercial loan growth was tempered by a decrease of $2.3 billion in loans to mortgage companies and a decrease of $962 million in PPP loans.
Period-end deposits of $63.5 billion decreased $11.4 billion, or 15%, from December 31, 2021 driven by a $7.0 billion decrease in interest-bearing deposits and a $4.4 billion decrease in noninterest-bearing deposits. The decline in deposit balances largely reflects the continued downward trend from mid-2021 highs driven by elevated liquidity related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios at December 31, 2022 were 11.92% and 13.33%, respectively, compared to 11.04% and 12.34% at December 31, 2021. The CET1 ratio was 10.17% at December 31, 2022 compared to 9.92% at December 31, 2021.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income is FHN's largest source of revenue and is the difference between the interest earned on interest-earning assets (generally loans, leases and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits and borrowed funds). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the difference between the effective yield on average interest-earning assets and the effective cost of interest-bearing liabilities. These factors are influenced by the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as local economic conditions, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the FRB and market interest rates.
Net interest income of $2.4 billion in 2022 increased $398 million, or 20%, from 2021 largely driven by higher earning asset yields partially offset by higher interest-bearing liability costs.
FHN's net interest margin increased 62 basis points to 3.10% in 2022 compared to 2021 and the net interest spread increased 49 basis points to 2.85% over the same period. Net interest margin and net interest spread were favorably impacted by a 79 basis point increase in earning asset yields, largely reflecting the impact of higher interest rates and lower levels of excess cash. The higher yield on earning assets was partially offset by a 30 basis point increase in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities largely driven by higher deposit costs.
Total average earning assets decreased $3.4 billion in 2022 largely from a decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks partially offset by an increase in investment securities.
The following table presents the major components of net interest income and net interest margin:
Provision for Credit Losses
Provision for credit losses includes the provision for loan and lease losses and the provision for unfunded lending commitments. The provision for credit losses is the expense necessary to maintain the ALLL and the accrual for unfunded lending commitments at levels appropriate to absorb management’s estimate of credit losses expected over the life of the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded loan commitments.
Provision for credit losses increased to $95 million in 2022, compared to a benefit of $310 million in 2021. The
increase in provision during 2022 was reflective of loan growth and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast. The provision benefit in 2021 reflected an improved macroeconomic outlook, positive credit grade migration, and lower loan balances.
For additional information about general asset quality trends refer to the Asset Quality section in this MD&A.
Noninterest expense of $2.0 billion decreased $143 million, or 7%, from 2021. Personnel expense of $1.1 billion decreased $109 million from 2021 largely attributable to lower incentive-based compensation and deferred compensation costs. Contract employment and outsourcing expense decreased $13 million from 2021 and occupancy expense decreased $9 million largely reflecting the benefit of IBKC merger cost savings.
Noninterest expense results also reflect a decrease tied to $34 million in impairment of long-lived assets in 2021
related to merger integration efforts associated with reduction of leased office space and banking center optimization.
The $25 million increase in other expense in 2022 was largely attributable to $22 million in derivative valuation adjustments on prior Visa Class B share sales.
Total merger and integration expense was $136 million for 2022 compared to $187 million for 2021.


Income Taxes
FHN recorded income tax expense of $247 million in 2022 compared to $274 million in 2021, resulting in an effective tax rate of 21.3% and 21.4% respectively.
FHN’s effective tax rate is favorably affected by recurring items such as bank-owned life insurance, tax-exempt income, and tax credits and other tax benefits from tax credit investments. The effective rate is unfavorably affected by the non-deductibility of portions of: FDIC premium, executive compensation and merger expenses. FHN's effective tax rate also may be affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as changes in unrecognized tax benefits. The rate also may be affected by items resulting from business combinations.
A deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability is recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. The tax consequence is calculated by applying current enacted statutory tax rates to these temporary differences in future years. FHN’s net DTA were $313 million and $52 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
As of December 31, 2022, FHN had deferred tax asset balances related to federal and state income tax carryforwards of $34 million and $2 million, which will expire at various dates. Refer to Note 14 - Income Taxes for additional information.
FHN’s gross DTA after valuation allowance was $761 million and $448 million as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively. Based on current analysis, FHN believes that its ability to realize the DTA is more likely than not. FHN monitors its DTA and the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. A significant adverse change in FHN’s taxable earnings outlook could result in the need for a valuation allowance.
FHN and its eligible subsidiaries are included in a consolidated federal income tax return. FHN files separate returns for subsidiaries that are not eligible to be included in a consolidated federal income tax return. Based on the laws of the applicable states where it conducts business operations, FHN either files consolidated, combined, or
separate returns. The statute of limitations for FHN’s consolidated federal income tax returns remains open for tax years 2019 through 2021. Additionally, 2016 – 2018 could be subject to limited review related to refund claims filed. IBKC's federal consolidated tax returns for 2016, 2017 and 2018 are currently under examination by the IRS. On occasion, as federal or state auditors examine the tax returns of FHN and its subsidiaries, FHN may extend the statute of limitations for a reasonable period. Otherwise, the statutes of limitations remain open only for tax years in accordance with federal and state statutes. See Note 14 - Income Taxes for additional information.
Business Segment Results
FHN's reportable segments include Regional Banking, Specialty Banking, and Corporate. See Note 19 - Business Segment Information for additional disclosures related to FHN's segments.
Regional Banking
The Regional Banking segment generated pre-tax income of $1.1 billion in 2022 compared to $1.3 billion in 2021, a decrease of $222 million, largely driven by a $323 million increase in provision for credit losses. The increase in provision was the result of loan growth and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast. Results also reflect a $196 million increase in revenue, largely from higher net interest income, and a $95 million increase in noninterest expense largely tied to higher personnel expense and fraud losses.
Net interest income of $2.0 billion increased $190 million reflecting the benefit of higher interest rates and average loan balances, partially offset by higher funding costs.
Specialty Banking
Pre-tax income of $414 million in the Specialty Banking segment decreased $296 million compared to 2021 driven by a $349 million decrease in revenue and a $78 million increase in provision for credit losses, offset by a $131 million decrease in noninterest expense.
The decline in revenue was primarily attributable to lower fixed income and mortgage banking and title income. Fixed income of $205 million decreased $201 million, largely driven by macroeconomic uncertainty and volatility and the impact of increasing interest rates. Mortgage banking and title income of $68 million decreased $84
million largely driven by a decline in mortgage sales volume and margin compression as well as the divestiture of the title services business.
The increase in provision for credit losses was primarily attributable to loan growth and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast.
Noninterest expense decreased largely due to a decline in personnel expense tied to a decrease in incentive-based compensation.
Corporate
Pre-tax loss for the Corporate segment of $325 million for 2022 improved $393 million compared to 2021.
Net interest expense decreased $271 million reflecting the impact of funds transfer pricing. Noninterest income of $60 million increased $19 million compared to the prior year. Noninterest income results reflect the impact of a $26 million loss on retirement of legacy IBKC trust preferred securities in 2021, the $22 million gain on sale of the title services business in 2022, and higher securities gains. These increases were partially offset by lower deferred compensation income of $30 million.
Noninterest expense of $279 million for 2022 decreased $107 million compared to 2021 largely reflecting lower deferred compensation expense in the current year, as well as the impact of impairments on long-lived assets related to acquisition integration efforts in 2021. Merger and integration expenses were $136 million compared to $187 million in 2021.
Because of various factors, the contractual maturities of consumer loans are not indicative of the actual lives of such loans. A significant component of FHN’s loan portfolio consists of consumer real estate loans, a majority of which are home equity lines of credit and home equity installment loans. These loans have an initial period where the borrower is only required to pay the periodic interest. After the interest-only period, the loan will require the payment of both principal and interest over the remaining term. Numerous factors can contribute to the actual life of a home equity line or installment loan. As a result, the actual average life of home equity lines and loans is difficult to predict and changes in any of these factors could result in changes in projections of average lives.
Loans Held for Sale
In 2020, FHN obtained IBKC's mortgage banking operations which includes origination and servicing of residential first lien mortgages that conform to standards
established by GSEs that are major investors in U.S. home mortgages but can also consist of junior lien and jumbo loans secured by residential property. These non-conforming loans are primarily sold to private companies that are unaffiliated with the GSEs on a servicing-released basis. For further detail, see Note 7 - Mortgage Banking Activity.
The legacy FHN loans HFS portfolio consists of small business, other consumer loans, mortgage warehouse, USDA, and home equity loans.
On December 31, 2022, loans HFS were $590 million, a $582 million decrease compared to December 31, 2021, largely driven by lower mortgage origination volume given the impact of higher long-term rates. Held-for-sale consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in process of foreclosure totaled $3 million for both December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Asset Quality
Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition
FHN groups its loans into portfolio segments based on internal classifications reflecting the manner in which the ALLL is established and how credit risk is measured, monitored, and reported. From time to time, and if conditions are such that certain subsegments are uniquely affected by economic or market conditions or are experiencing greater deterioration than other components of the loan portfolio, management may
determine the ALLL at a more granular level. Commercial loans are composed of C&I loans and CRE loans. Consumer loans are composed of consumer real estate loans and credit card and other loans. FHN has a concentration of residential real estate loans of 21% and 20% of total loans in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Industry concentrations are discussed under the C&I heading below.
Underwriting Policies and Procedures
The following sections describe each portfolio as well as general underwriting procedures for each. As economic and real estate conditions develop, enhancements to underwriting and credit policies and procedures may be necessary or desirable. Loan policies and procedures for all portfolios are reviewed by credit risk working groups and management risk committees comprised of business line managers and credit administration professionals as well as by various other reviewing bodies within FHN. Policies and procedures are approved by key executives and/or senior managers leading the applicable credit risk working groups as well as by management risk committees.
The credit risk working groups and management risk committees strive to ensure that the approved policies and procedures address the associated risks and establish reasonable underwriting criteria that appropriately mitigate risk. Policies and procedures are reviewed, revised and re-issued periodically at established review dates or earlier if changes in the economic environment, portfolio performance, the size of portfolio or industry concentrations, or regulatory guidance warrant an earlier review.
Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolios
FHN’s commercial loan approval process grants lending authority based upon job description, experience, and performance. The lending authority is delegated to the business line (Market Managers, Departmental Managers, Regional Presidents, Relationship Managers (RM) and Portfolio Managers (PM)) and to Credit Risk Managers. While individual limits vary, the predominant amount of approval authority is vested with the Credit Risk Management function. Portfolio, industry, and borrower concentration limits for the various portfolios are established by executive management and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board.
FHN’s commercial lending process incorporates an RM and a PM for most commercial credits. The RM is primarily responsible for communications with the borrower and maintaining the relationship, while the PM is responsible for assessing the credit quality of the borrower, beginning with the initial underwriting and continuing through the servicing period. Other specialists and the assigned RM/PM are organized into units called deal teams. Deal teams are constructed with specific job attributes that facilitate FHN’s ability to identify, mitigate, document, and manage ongoing risk. PMs and credit analysts provide enhanced analytical support during loan origination and servicing, including monitoring of the financial condition of the borrower and tracking compliance with loan agreements.
Loan closing officers and the construction loan management unit specialize in loan documentation and the management of the construction lending process. FHN strives to identify problem assets early through comprehensive policies and guidelines, targeted portfolio reviews, more frequent servicing on lower rated borrowers, and an emphasis on frequent grading. For smaller commercial credits, generally $5 million or less, and income-producing CRE credits greater than $10 million to non-professional real estate developers and smaller professional real estate investors/developers, FHN utilizes a centralized underwriting unit in order to originate and grade small business loans more efficiently and consistently.
FHN may utilize availability of guarantors/sponsors to support commercial lending decisions during the credit underwriting process and when determining the assignment of internal loan grades. Reliance on the guaranty as a viable secondary source of repayment is a function of an analysis proving capability to pay, factoring in, among other things, liquidity and direct/indirect cash flows. FHN also considers the volume and amount of guaranties provided for all global indebtedness and the likelihood of realization. FHN presumes a guarantor’s willingness to perform until there is any current or prior indication or future expectation that the guarantor may
not willingly and voluntarily perform under the terms of the guaranty. In FHN’s risk grading approach, it is deemed that financial support becomes necessary generally at a point when the loan would otherwise be graded substandard, reflecting a well-defined weakness. At that point, provided willingness and capacity to support are appropriately demonstrated, a strong, legally enforceable guaranty can mitigate the risk of default or loss, justify a less severe rating, and consequently reduce the level of allowance or charge-off that might otherwise be deemed appropriate.
C&I
The C&I portfolio totaled $31.8 billion and $31.1 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and is comprised of loans used for general business purposes. Products offered in the C&I portfolio include term loan financing of owner-occupied real estate and fixed assets, direct financing and sales-type leases, working capital lines of credit, and trade credit enhancement through letters of credit.
Income-producing C&I loans are underwritten in accordance with a well-defined credit origination process. This process includes applying minimum underwriting standards as well as separation of origination and credit approval roles on transaction sizes over PM authorization limits. Underwriting typically includes due diligence of the borrower and the applicable industry of the borrower, analysis of the borrower’s available financial information, identification and analysis of the various sources of repayment and identification of the primary risk attributes. Stress testing the borrower’s financial capacity, adherence to loan documentation requirements, and assigning credit risk grades using internally developed scorecards are also used to help quantify the risk when
appropriate. Underwriting parameters also include loan-to-value ratios which vary depending on collateral type, use of guaranties, loan agreement requirements, and other recommended terms such as equity requirements, amortization, and maturity. Approval decisions also consider various financial ratios and performance measures of the borrowers, such as cash flow and balance sheet leverage, liquidity, coverage of fixed charges, and working capital. Additionally, approval decisions consider the capital structure of the borrower, sponsorship, and quality/value of collateral. Generally, guideline and policy exceptions are identified and mitigated during the approval process. Pricing of C&I loans is based upon the determined credit risk specific to the individual borrower. Historically, these loans typically have had variable rates tied to the LIBOR or prime rate of interest plus or minus the appropriate margin. However, with the cessation of LIBOR, FHN no longer references LIBOR in new loan contracts, and the existing portfolio of loans tied to LIBOR is being repriced to alternative reference rates.
Excluding PPP loans, C&I growth was $1.7 billion, or 6%. The largest geographical concentrations of balances as of December 31, 2022 were in Tennessee (21%), Florida (13%), Texas (11%), North Carolina (7%), Louisiana (7%), California (5%), and Georgia (5%), with no other state representing more than 5% of the portfolio.
The following table provides the composition of the C&I portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. For purposes of this disclosure, industries are determined based on the NAICS industry codes used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the collection, analysis, and publication of statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
Industry Concentrations
Loan concentrations are considered to exist for a financial institution when there are loans to numerous borrowers engaged in similar activities that would cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. Loans to mortgage companies and borrowers in the finance and insurance industry were 20% of FHN’s C&I loan portfolio as of December 31, 2022, and as a result could be affected by items that uniquely impact the financial services industry. As of December 31, 2022, FHN did not have any other concentrations of C&I loans in any single industry of 10% or more of total loans.
Loans to Mortgage Companies
Loans to mortgage companies include non-revolving commercial lines of credit to qualified mortgage companies primarily for the temporary warehousing of eligible mortgage loans prior to the borrower's sale of those mortgage loans to third party investors. Loans to mortgage companies were 7% of the C&I portfolio as of December 31, 2022 and 15% of the C&I portfolio as of December 31, 2021. This portfolio generally fluctuates with mortgage rates and seasonal factors and includes balances related to both home purchase and refinance activity. Generally, new loan originations to mortgage lenders increase when there is a decline in mortgage rates and decrease when rates rise; in 2022, rates rose. In periods of economic uncertainty, this trend may not occur even if interest rates are declining. In 2022, approximately 73% of the loan originations were home purchases and 27% were refinance transactions.
Finance and Insurance
The finance and insurance component represented 13% of the C&I portfolio as of December 31, 2022 compared to 11% at the end of 2021 and includes TRUPs (i.e., long-term unsecured loans to bank and insurance-related businesses), loans to bank holding companies, and asset-based lending to consumer finance companies. As of December 31, 2022, asset-based lending to consumer finance companies represents approximately $2.0 billion of the finance and insurance component.
Paycheck Protection Program
In 2020, Congress created the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) in response to the economic disruption associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the PPP, qualifying businesses could receive loans from private lenders, such as FHN, that are fully guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. These loans potentially are partly or fully forgivable, depending upon the borrower’s use of the funds and maintenance of employment levels. To the extent forgiven, the borrower is relieved from payment while the lender is still paid from the program.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the C&I portfolio included $76 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, in PPP
loans. Due to the government guarantee and forgiveness provisions, PPP loans are considered to have no credit risk and do not affect the amount of provision and ALLL recorded. As a result, no ALLL was recorded for PPP loans as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and for regulatory capital purposes these loans have been assigned a risk weight of zero.
For these loans, there were remaining net lender fees of less than $1 million to be paid to FHN as of December 31, 2022. During 2022, FHN continued to work with its clients that have applied for and received PPP loan forgiveness. Through December 31, 2022, over $5 billion of the original $6 billion in PPP loans originated by FHN and by IBERIABANK prior to the merger had been forgiven by the SBA.
Commercial Real Estate
The CRE portfolio totaled $13.2 billion as of December 31, 2022, a $1.1 billion, or 9%, increase compared to December 31, 2021.
The CRE portfolio includes both financings for commercial construction and non-construction loans. This portfolio contains loans, draws on lines, and letters of credit to commercial real estate developers for the construction and mini-permanent financing of income-producing real estate.
Residential CRE loans include loans to residential builders and developers for the purpose of constructing single-family homes, condominiums, and town homes, and on a limited basis, for developing residential subdivisions. After the fulfillment of existing commitments over the near term, the residential CRE class will be in a wind-down state with the expectation of full runoff in the foreseeable future.
Income-producing CRE loans
Income-producing CRE loans are underwritten in accordance with credit policies and underwriting guidelines that are reviewed at least annually and revised as necessary based on market conditions. Loans are underwritten based upon project type, size, location, sponsorship, and other market-specific data. Generally, minimum requirements for equity, debt service coverage ratios, and level of pre-leasing activity are established based on perceived risk in each subcategory. Loan-to-value (value is defined as the lower of cost or market) limits are set below regulatory prescribed ceilings and generally range between 50% and 80% depending on the underlying product set. Term and amortization requirements are set based on prudent standards for interim real estate lending. Equity requirements are established based on the quality and liquidity of the primary source of repayment. For example, more equity would be required for a speculative construction project or land loan than for a property fully leased to a credit tenant or a roster of tenants. Typically, a borrower must
have at least 15% of cost invested in a project before FHN will provide loan funding. Income properties are required to achieve a debt service coverage ratio greater than or equal to 125% at inception or stabilization of the project based on loan amortization and a minimum underwriting interest rate. Some product types that possess a greater risk profile require a higher level of equity, as well as a higher debt service coverage ratio threshold. A proprietary minimum underwriting interest rate is used to calculate compliance with underwriting standards. Generally, specific levels of pre-leasing must be met for construction loans on income properties. A global cash flow analysis is performed at the sponsor level. A large minority of the portfolio is on a floating rate basis tied to LIBOR. However, since January 1, 2022, no new loan contracts reference LIBOR, and the existing portfolio of loans tied to LIBOR is being repriced to alternative reference rates.
The credit administration and ongoing monitoring consists of multiple internal control processes. Construction loans
are closed by a centralized control unit and construction loan management is administered centrally for loans $3 million and over. Underwriters and credit approval personnel stress the borrower’s/project’s financial capacity utilizing numerous attributes such as interest rates, vacancy, and discount rates. Key information is captured from the various portfolios and then stressed at the aggregate level. Results are utilized to assist with the assessment of the adequacy of the ALLL and to steer portfolio management strategies.
The largest geographical concentrations of CRE balances as of December 31, 2022 were in Florida (25%), Texas (12%), North Carolina (11%), Georgia (10%), Louisiana (9%), and Tennessee (9%), with no other state representing more than 5% of the portfolio. Subcategories of income-producing CRE loans consist of multi-family (27%), office (21%), retail (18%), industrial (16%), hospitality (11%), land/land development (2%), and other (5%).
Consumer Loan Portfolios
Consumer Real Estate
The consumer real estate portfolio is primarily composed of home equity lines and installment loans. This portfolio totaled $12.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $10.8 billion as of December 31, 2021. The largest geographical concentrations of balances in the consumer real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2022 were in Florida (30%), Tennessee (22%), Louisiana (9%), Texas (9%), North Carolina (7%), and New York (5%), with no other state representing more than 5% of the portfolio.
As of December 31, 2022, approximately 88% of the consumer real estate portfolio was in a first lien position. As of December 31, 2022, the weighted average FICO score at origination of this portfolio was 757 and the refreshed FICO scores averaged 754, no significant change from FICO scores of 755 and 754, respectively, as of December 31, 2021. Generally, performance of this portfolio is affected by life events that affect borrowers’ finances, the level of unemployment, and home prices.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, FHN had held-to-maturity consumer mortgage loans secured by real estate totaling $42 million and $20 million, respectively, that were in the process of foreclosure.
HELOCs comprised $2.0 billion of the consumer real estate portfolio for both December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. FHN’s HELOCs typically have a 5 or 10 year draw
period followed by a 10 or 20 year repayment period, respectively. During the draw period, a borrower is able to draw on the line and is only required to make interest payments. The line is frozen if a borrower becomes past due on payments. Once the draw period has concluded, the line is closed and the borrower is required to make both principal and interest payments monthly until the loan matures. The principal payment generally is fully amortizing, but payment amounts will adjust when variable rates reset to reflect changes in the prime rate.
As of December 31, 2022, approximately 92% of FHN's HELOCs were in the draw period compared to 88% at the end of 2021. Based on when draw periods are scheduled to end per the line agreement, it is expected that $519 million, or 28%, of HELOCs currently in the draw period will enter the repayment period during the next 60 months, based on current terms. Generally, delinquencies for HELOCs that have entered the repayment period are initially higher than HELOCs still in the draw period because of the increased minimum payment requirement. However, over time, performance of these loans usually begins to stabilize. HELOC's nearing the end of the draw period are closely monitored.
The following table shows the HELOCs currently in the draw period and expected timing of conversion to the repayment period.
Underwriting
For the majority of loans in this portfolio, underwriting decisions are made through a centralized loan underwriting center. To obtain a consumer real estate loan, the loan applicant(s) in most cases must first meet a minimum qualifying FICO score. Minimum FICO score requirements are established by management for both loans secured by real estate as well as non-real estate loans. Management also establishes maximum loan amounts, loan-to-value ratios, and debt-to-income ratios for each consumer real estate product. Applicants must have the financial capacity (or available income) to service the debt by not exceeding a calculated debt-to-income ratio. The amount of the loan is limited to a percentage of the lesser of the current appraised value or sales price of the collateral. Identified guideline and policy exceptions require established mitigating factors that have been approved for use by Credit Risk Management.
HELOC interest rates are variable and adjust with movements in the index rate stated in the loan agreement. Such loans can have elevated risks of default, particularly in a rising interest rate environment, potentially stressing borrower capacity to repay the loan at the higher interest rate. FHN’s current underwriting practice requires HELOC borrowers to qualify based on a sensitized interest rate (above the current note rate), fully
amortized payment methodology. FHN’s underwriting guidelines require borrowers to qualify at an interest rate that is 200 basis points above the note rate. This mitigates risk to FHN in the event of a sharp rise in interest rates over a relatively short time horizon.
HELOC Portfolio Risk Management
FHN performs continuous HELOC account reviews in order to identify higher-risk home equity lines and initiate preventative and corrective actions. The reviews consider a number of account activity patterns and characteristics such as the number of times delinquent within recent periods, changes in credit bureau score since origination, score degradation, performance of the first lien, and account utilization. In accordance with FHN’s interpretation of regulatory guidance, FHN may block future draws on accounts in order to mitigate risk of loss to FHN.
Credit Card and Other
The credit card and other consumer loan portfolio totaled $840 million as of December 31, 2022 and $910 million as of December 31, 2021. This portfolio primarily consists of consumer-related credits, including home equity and other personal consumer loans, credit card receivables, and automobile loans. The $70 million decrease was driven by net repayments.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The ACL is maintained at a level sufficient to provide appropriate reserves to absorb estimated future credit losses in accordance with GAAP. For additional information regarding the ACL, see Notes 1 and 4 of this Report.
The ALLL was $685 million as of December 31, 2022, or 1.18% of total loans and leases, compared to $670 million, or 1.22% of total loans and leases, at the end of 2021. The ACL to total loans and leases ratio decreased to 1.33% as of December 31, 2022 from 1.34% as of December 31, 2021.
Troubled Debt Restructuring and Loan Modifications
As part of FHN’s ongoing risk management practices, FHN attempts to work with borrowers when appropriate to extend or modify loan terms to better align with their current ability to repay. Extensions and modifications to loans are made in accordance with internal policies and guidelines which conform to regulatory guidance. Each occurrence is unique to the borrower and is evaluated separately. In a situation where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty, FHN identifies and reports that loan as a TDR.
Loan modifications made during 2021 that met the TDR relief provisions outlined in either the CARES Act, as extended by the CAA, or revised Interagency Guidance, are excluded from consideration as a TDR, and are therefore excluded from designation as a TDR in the information and discussion that follows. See Note 1 - Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3 – Loans and Leases for further discussion regarding TDRs and loan modifications.
Commercial Loan Modifications
As part of FHN’s credit risk management governance processes, the Loan Rehab and Recovery Department (LRRD) is responsible for managing most commercial relationships with borrowers whose financial condition has deteriorated to such an extent that the credits are being considered for impairment, classified as substandard or worse, placed on nonaccrual status, foreclosed or in process of foreclosure, or in active or contemplated litigation. LRRD has the authority and responsibility to enter into workout and/or rehabilitation agreements with troubled commercial borrowers in order to mitigate and/or minimize the amount of credit losses recognized from these problem assets. While every circumstance is different, LRRD will generally use forbearance agreements (generally 6-12 months) as an element of commercial loan workouts, which might include reduced interest rates, reduced payments, release of guarantor, or entering into short sale agreements.
The individual impairment assessments completed on commercial loans in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification Topic related to Troubled Debt Restructurings (“ASC 310-40”) include loans classified as TDRs as well as loans that may have been modified yet not classified as TDRs by management. For example, a modification of loan terms that management would generally not consider to be a TDR could be a temporary extension of maturity to allow a borrower to complete an asset sale whereby the proceeds of such transaction are to be paid to satisfy the outstanding debt. Additionally, a
modification that extends the term of a loan but does not involve reduction of principal or accrued interest, in which the interest rate is adjusted to reflect current market rates for similarly situated borrowers, is not considered a TDR. Nevertheless, each assessment will take into account any modified terms and will be comprehensive to ensure appropriate impairment assessment. If individual impairment is identified, management will either hold specific reserves on the amount of impairment, or, if the loan is collateral dependent, write down the carrying amount of the asset to the net realizable value of the collateral.
Consumer Loan Modifications
FHN does not currently participate in any of the loan modification programs sponsored by the U.S. government but does generally structure modified consumer loans using the parameters of the former Home Affordable Modification Program. Generally, a majority of loans modified under any such proprietary programs are classified as TDRs.
Within the HELOC and real estate installment loans classes of the consumer portfolio segment, TDRs are typically modified by reducing the interest rate (in increments of 25 basis points to a minimum of 1% for up to 5 years) and a possible maturity date extension to reach an affordable housing debt-to-income ratio. After 5 years, the interest rate generally returns to the original interest rate prior to modification; for certain modifications, the modified interest rate increases 2% per year until the original interest rate prior to modification is achieved. Permanent mortgage TDRs are typically modified by reducing the interest rate (in increments of 25 basis points to a minimum of 2% for up to 5 years) and a possible maturity date extension to reach an affordable housing debt-to-income ratio. After 5 years, the interest rate steps up 1 percent every year until it reaches the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Weekly Survey Rate cap. Contractual maturities may be extended to 40 years on permanent mortgages and to 30 years for consumer real estate loans. Within the credit card class of the consumer portfolio segment, TDRs are typically modified through either a short-term credit card hardship program or a longer-term credit card workout program. In the credit card hardship program, borrowers may be granted rate and payment reductions for 6 months to 1 year. In the credit card workout program, clients are granted a rate reduction to 0% and term extensions for up to 5 years to pay off the remaining balance.
Following classification as a TDR, modified loans within the consumer portfolio, which were previously evaluated for
impairment on a collective basis determined by their smaller balances and homogenous nature, become subject to the impairment guidance in ASC 310-10-35, which requires individual evaluation of the debt for impairment. However, as applicable accounting guidance allows, FHN may aggregate certain smaller-balance homogeneous TDRs and use historical statistics, such as aggregated charge-off amounts and average amounts recovered, along with a composite effective interest rate to measure impairment when such impaired loans have risk characteristics in common.
FHN had $180 million and $206 million in held-for-investment TDRs as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. For these TDRs, FHN had an allowance for loan and lease losses of $12 million for both periods, including specific reserves, or 7% and 6% of TDR balances, as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Additionally, FHN had $30 million and $35 million of HFS loans classified as TDRs as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.


The following table provides a summary of TDRs for the periods ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Short-Term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings include federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, trading liabilities, and other short-term borrowings. Total short-term borrowings were $2.8 billion and $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively.
Short-term borrowings balances fluctuate largely based on the level of FHLB borrowing as a result of loan demand, deposit levels and balance sheet funding strategies. Trading liabilities fluctuate based on various factors,
including levels of trading securities and hedging strategies. Federal funds purchased fluctuates depending on the amount of excess funding of FHN's correspondent bank customers. Balances of securities sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate based on cost attractiveness relative to FHLB borrowing levels and the ability to pledge securities toward such transactions. See Note 9 - Short-Term Borrowings for additional information.
Term Borrowings
Term borrowings include senior and subordinated borrowings with original maturities greater than one year. Total term borrowings were $1.6 billion as of both
December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. See Note 10 - Term Borrowings for additional information.
Banking regulators define minimum capital ratios for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. Based on the capital rules and definitions prescribed by the banking regulators, should any depository institution’s capital ratios decline below predetermined levels, it would become subject to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions.
The system categorizes a depository institution’s capital position into one of five categories ranging from well-capitalized to critically under-capitalized. For an institution the size of FHN to qualify as well-capitalized, Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital, and Leverage capital ratios must be at least 6.50%, 8.00%, 10.00%, and 5.00%, respectively. Furthermore, a capital conservation buffer of 50 basis points above these levels must be maintained on the Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios to avoid restrictions on dividends, share repurchases and certain discretionary bonuses.
As of December 31, 2022, both FHN and First Horizon Bank had sufficient capital to qualify as well-capitalized
institutions and to meet the capital conservation buffer requirement. Capital ratios for both FHN and First Horizon Bank as of December 31, 2022 are calculated under the final rule issued by the banking regulators in 2020 to delay the effects of CECL on regulatory capital for two years, followed by a three-year transition period.
For FHN, the Tier 1 and Total risk-based regulatory capital ratios increased in 2022 relative to 2021 primarily from the impact of net income less dividends. FHN's Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios further benefited from the issuance of its Series G preferred stock in February 2022. FHN and First Horizon Bank's risk-based regulatory capital ratios were negatively impacted in 2022 from an increase in risk-weighted assets from December 31, 2021.
During 2023, capital ratios are expected to remain above well-capitalized standards plus the required capital conservation buffer.
For 2022, FHN and First Horizon Bank completed a company run stress test using the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) Resubmission scenarios published in February 2022. Results of these tests indicate that both FHN and First Horizon Bank would be able to maintain capital well in excess of Basel III Adequately Capitalized standards under the hypothetical severe global recession of the 2022 CCAR Resubmission Severely Adverse scenario. A summary of those results was posted in the “Events & Presentations” section on FHN’s investor relations website on August 26, 2022. Neither FHN’s stress test posting, nor any other material found on FHN’s
website generally, is part of this report or incorporated herein.
FHN anticipates that it will continue performing an annual enterprise-wide stress test as part of its capital and risk management process. Results of this test will be presented to executive management and the Board.
The disclosures in this “Stress Testing” section include forward-looking statements. Please refer to “Forward-Looking Statements” for additional information concerning the characteristics and limitations of statements of that type.
Common Stock Purchase Programs
Pursuant to Board authority, FHN may repurchase shares of its common stock from time to time and will evaluate the level of capital and take action designed to generate or use capital, as appropriate, for the interests of the shareholders, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. FHN’s Board has not authorized a preferred stock purchase program.
General Purchase Program
On January 27, 2021, FHN announced that its Board approved a new $500 million common share purchase program that was to expire on January 31, 2023. On October 26, 2021, FHN announced that the 2021 program had been increased by $500 million and extended to October 31, 2023. The 2021 program is not tied to any compensation plan. Purchases may be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions,
including under Rule 10b5-1 plans as well as accelerated share repurchase and other structured transactions. The timing and exact amount of common share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including FHN's capital position, financial performance, capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions and regulatory considerations.
As of December 31, 2022, $401 million in purchases had been made life-to-date under the 2021 program at an average price per share of $16.60, or $16.58 excluding commissions. At current price levels, which have been impacted by the Pending TD Merger since it was announced, management does not currently anticipate purchasing additional shares under this authority.
Compensation Plans Purchase Program
A consolidated compensation plan share purchase program was announced on August 6, 2004. This program consolidated into a single share purchase program all of the previously authorized compensation plan share programs, as well as the renewal of the authorization to purchase shares for use in connection with two compensation plans for which the share purchase authority had expired. The total amount authorized under this consolidated compensation plan share purchase program is 29.6 million shares calculated before adjusting
for stock dividends distributed through January 1, 2011. The authorization has been reduced for that portion which relates to compensation plans for which no options remain outstanding. The shares may be purchased over the option exercise period of the various compensation plans on or before December 31, 2023. Purchases may be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and are subject to various factors, including FHN's capital position, financial performance, capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions, and regulatory restrictions. As of December 31, 2022, the
Risk Management
FHN derives revenue from providing services and, in many cases, assuming and managing risk for profit which exposes FHN to business strategy and reputational, liquidity, market, capital adequacy, operational, compliance, legal, and credit risks that require ongoing oversight and management. FHN has an enterprise-wide approach to risk governance, measurement, management, and reporting including an economic capital allocation process that is tied to risk profiles used to measure risk-adjusted returns. Through an enterprise-wide risk governance structure and a Risk Appetite Statement approved by the Board, management continually evaluates the balance of risk/return and earnings volatility with shareholder value.
FHN’s enterprise-wide risk governance structure begins with the Board. The Board, working with the Risk Committee of the Board, establishes FHN’s risk appetite by approving policies and limits that provide standards for the nature and the level of risk FHN is willing to assume. The Board regularly receives reports on management’s performance against FHN’s risk appetite primarily through the Board’s Risk and Audit Committees.
To further support the risk governance provided by the Board, FHN has established accountabilities, control processes, procedures, and a management governance structure designed to align risk management with risk-taking throughout FHN. The control procedures are aligned with FHN’s four components of risk governance: (1) Specific Risk Committees; (2) the Risk Management Organization; (3) Business Unit Risk Management; and (4) Independent Assurance Functions.
1.Specific Risk Committees: The Board has delegated authority to the Chief Executive Officer to manage Business Strategy and Reputation Risk, and the general business affairs of FHN under the Board’s oversight. The CEO utilizes the executive management team and the Management Risk Committee to carry out these
duties and to analyze existing and emerging strategic and reputation risks and determines the appropriate course of action. The Management Risk Committee is comprised of the CEO and certain officers designated by the CEO. The Management Risk Committee is supported by a set of specific risk committees focused on unique risk types (e.g. liquidity, credit, operational, etc.). These risk committees provide a mechanism that assembles the necessary expertise and perspectives of the management team to discuss emerging risk issues, monitor FHN’s risk-taking activities, and evaluate specific transactions and exposures. These committees also monitor the direction and trend of risks relative to business strategies and market conditions and direct management to respond to risk issues.
2.The Risk Management Organization: FHN’s risk management organization, led by the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Credit Officer, provides objective oversight of risk-taking activities. The risk management organization translates FHN’s overall risk appetite into approved limits and formal policies and is supported by corporate staff functions, including the Corporate Secretary, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, and Technology. Risk management also works with business units and functional experts to establish appropriate operating standards and monitor business practices in relation to those standards. Additionally, risk management proactively works with business units and senior management to focus management on key risks in FHN and emerging trends that may change FHN’s risk profile. The Chief Risk Officer has overall responsibility and accountability for enterprise risk management and aggregate risk reporting.
3.Business Unit Risk Management: FHN’s business units are responsible for identifying, acknowledging, quantifying, mitigating, and managing all risks arising within their respective units. They determine and
execute their business strategies, which puts them closest to the changing nature of risks and they are best able to take the needed actions to manage and mitigate those risks. The business units are supported by the risk management organization that helps identify and consider risks when making business decisions. Management processes, structure, and policies are designed to help ensure compliance with laws and regulations as well as provide organizational clarity for authority, decision-making, and accountability. The risk governance structure supports and promotes the escalation of material items to executive management and the Board.
4.Independent Assurance Functions: Internal Audit, Credit Assurance Services (CAS), Compliance Testing, and Model Validation provide an independent and objective assessment of the design and execution of FHN’s internal control system, including management
processes, risk governance, and policies and procedures. These groups’ activities are designed to provide reasonable assurance that risks are appropriately identified and communicated; resources are safeguarded; significant financial, managerial, and operating information is complete, accurate, and reliable; and employee actions are in compliance with FHN’s policies and applicable laws and regulations. Internal Audit and CAS report to the Chief Audit Executive, who is appointed by and reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. Internal Audit reports quarterly to the Audit Committee of the Board, while CAS reports quarterly to the Risk Committee of the Board. Compliance Testing and Model Validation report to the Chief Risk Officer and report annually to the Audit Committee of the Board.


Market Risk Management
Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions will adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact FHN’s earnings. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with FHN’s operations, primarily trading activities within FHN Financial, but also through non-trading activities which are primarily affected by interest rate risk that is managed by the ALCO within FHN.
FHN is exposed to market risk related to the trading securities inventory and loans held for sale maintained by FHN Financial in connection with its fixed income distribution activities. Various types of securities inventory positions are procured for distribution to clients by the sales staff. When these securities settle on a delayed basis, they are considered forward contracts. Refer to the "Determination of Fair Value - Trading securities and trading liabilities" section of Note 23 - Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities, which section is incorporated into this MD&A by this reference.
FHN’s market risk appetite is approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors and executed through management policies and procedures of ALCO and the FHN Financial Risk Committee. These policies contain various market risk limits including, for example,
VaR limits for the trading securities inventory, and individual position limits and sector limits for products with credit risk, among others. Risk measures are computed and reviewed on a daily basis to ensure compliance with market risk management policies.
Value-at-Risk and Stress Testing
VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the potential loss in value from adverse market movements over an assumed fixed holding period within a stated confidence level. FHN employs a model to compute daily VaR measures for its trading securities inventory. FHN computes VaR using historical simulation with a 1-year lookback period at a 99% confidence level with 1-day and 10-day time horizons. Additionally, FHN computes a Stressed VaR measure. The SVaR computation uses the same model but with model inputs reflecting historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate for our trading securities portfolio.


A summary of FHN's VaR and SVaR measures for 1-day and 10-day time horizons is presented in the following table:
The potential risk of loss reflected by FHN’s VaR measures assumes the trading securities inventory is static. Because FHN Financial procures fixed income securities for purposes of distribution to clients, its trading securities inventory turns over regularly. Additionally, FHNF traders actively manage the trading securities inventory continuously throughout each trading day. Accordingly, FHNF’s trading securities inventory is highly dynamic, rather than static. As a result, it would be rare for FHNF to incur a negative revenue day in its fixed income activities at the levels indicated by its VaR measures.
In addition to being used in FHN’s daily market risk management process, the VaR and SVaR measures are also used by FHN in computing its regulatory market risk capital requirements in accordance with the Market Risk Capital rules. For additional information regarding FHN's capital adequacy refer to the Capital section of this MD&A.
FHN also performs stress tests on its trading securities portfolio to calculate the potential loss under various
assumed market scenarios. Key assumed stresses used in those tests are:
Down 25 bps - assumes an instantaneous downward move in interest rates of 25 basis points at all points on the interest rate yield curve.
Up 25 bps - assumes an instantaneous upward move in interest rates of 25 basis points at all points on the interest rate yield curve.
Curve flattening - assumes an instantaneous flattening of the interest rate yield curve through an increase in short-term rates and a decrease in long-term rates. The 2-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to increase 15 basis points and the 10-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to decrease 15 basis points. Shifts in other points on the yield curve are predicted based on their correlation to the 2-year and 10-year points.
Curve steepening - assumes an instantaneous steepening of the interest rate yield curve through a decrease in short-term rates and an increase in long-


term rates. The 2-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to decrease 15 basis points and the 10-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to increase 15 basis points. Shifts in other points on the yield curve are predicted based on their correlation to the 2-year and 10-year points.
Credit spread widening - assumes an instantaneous increase in credit spreads (the difference between yields on Treasury securities and non-Treasury securities) of 25 basis points.
Model Validation
Trading risk management personnel within FHN Financial have primary responsibility for model risk management
with respect to the model used by FHN to compute its VaR measures and perform stress testing on the trading inventory. Among other procedures, these personnel monitor model results and perform periodic backtesting as part of an ongoing process of validating the accuracy of the model. These model risk management activities are subject to annual review by FHN’s Model Validation Group, an independent assurance group charged with oversight responsibility for FHN’s model risk management.
Interest Rate Risk Management
Interest rate risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from movement in interest rates. ALCO is responsible for overseeing the management of existing and emerging interest rate risk for the company within risk tolerances established by the Board. FHN primarily manages interest rate risk by structuring the balance sheet to maintain a desired level of associated earnings and to protect the economic value of FHN’s capital.
Net interest income and the value of equity are affected by changes in the level of market interest rates because of the differing repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities, the exercise of prepayment options held by loan clients, the early withdrawal options held by deposit clients, and changes in the basis between and changing shapes of the various yield curves used to price assets and liabilities. To isolate the repricing, basis, option, and yield curve components of overall interest rate risk, FHN employs Gap, Earnings at Risk, and Economic Value of Equity analyses generated by a balance sheet simulation model.
Net Interest Income Simulation Analysis
The information provided in this section, including the discussion regarding the outcomes of simulation analysis and rate shock analysis, is forward-looking. Actual results, if the assumed scenarios were to occur, could differ because of interest rate movements, the ability of management to execute its business plans, and other factors, including those presented in the Forward-Looking Statements section of this Report.
Management uses a simulation model to measure interest rate risk and to formulate strategies to improve balance sheet positioning, earnings, or both, within FHN’s interest rate risk, liquidity, and capital guidelines. Interest rate exposure is measured by forecasting 12 months of NII under various interest rate scenarios and comparing the percentage change in NII for each scenario to a base case scenario where interest rates remain unchanged. Assumptions are made regarding future balance sheet composition, interest rate movements, and loan and
deposit pricing. In addition, assumptions are made about the magnitude of asset prepayments and earlier than anticipated deposit withdrawals. The results of these scenarios help FHN develop strategies for managing exposure to interest rate risk. While management believes the assumptions used and scenarios selected in its simulations are reasonable, simulation modeling provides only an estimate, not a precise calculation, of exposure to any given change in interest rates.
Based on a static balance sheet as of December 31, 2022, NII exposures over the next 12 months assuming rate shocks of plus/minus 25 basis points, plus/minus 50 basis points, plus/minus 100 basis points, and plus 200 basis points are estimated to have variances as shown in the table below.
A steepening yield curve scenario where long-term rates increase by 50 basis points and short-term rates are static, results in a favorable NII variance of 0.2%. A flattening yield curve scenario where long-term rates decrease by 50 basis points and short-term rates are static, results in an unfavorable NII variance of 0.3%. These hypothetical scenarios are used to create a risk measurement framework, and do not necessarily represent management’s current view of future interest rates or market developments.
FHN’s net interest income had been impacted by the disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants as well as the low-rate environment. The impact of government stimulus programs and other developments continue to influence net interest income results, although the impacts from these programs have abated.
The yield curve was inverted for much of the last half of 2022, which has continued into early 2023. The inverted yield curve indicates market expectations that short term rates are likely to peak and then decline in future periods. Market participants are divided in their opinions regarding the timing and magnitude of further short term rate increases or subsequent rate cuts. FHN continues to monitor current economic trends and potential exposures closely.
Fair Value Shock Analysis
Interest rate risk and the slope of the yield curve also affect the fair value of FHN's trading inventory that is reflected in noninterest income.
Generally, low or declining interest rates with a positively sloped yield curve tend to increase income through higher demand for fixed income products. Additionally, the fair value of FHN's trading inventory can fluctuate as a result
of differences between current interest rates and the interest rates of fixed income securities in the trading inventory.
Derivatives
In the normal course of business, FHN utilizes various financial instruments (including derivative contracts and credit-related agreements) to manage the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in the fair value of certain financial instruments generally caused by changes in interest rates, including FHN's securities inventory, certain term borrowings, and certain loans. Additionally, FHN may enter into derivative contracts in order to meet clients' needs. However, such derivative contracts are typically offset with a derivative contract entered into with an upstream counterparty in order to mitigate risk associated with changes in interest rates.
The simulation models and related hedging strategies discussed above exclude the dynamics related to how fee income and noninterest expense may be affected by actual changes in interest rates or expectations of changes. See Note 21 - Derivatives for additional discussion of these instruments.
Capital Risk Management & Adequacy
The capital management objectives of FHN are to provide capital sufficient to cover the risks inherent in FHN’s businesses, to maintain excess capital to well-capitalized standards and Board policy, and to assure ready access to the capital markets. The Capital & Stress Testing Committee, chaired by the Corporate Treasurer, reports to ALCO and is responsible for capital management oversight and provides a forum for addressing management issues related to capital adequacy. Thiscommittee reviews sources and uses of capital, key capital ratios, segment economic capital allocation methodologies, coordinates the annual enterprise-wide stress testing process, and considers other factors in monitoring and managing current capital levels, as well as potential future sources and uses of capital. The Capital & Stress Testing Committee also recommends capital management policies, which are submitted for approval to ALCO and the Risk Committee and the Board as necessary.
Operational Risk Management
Operational risk is the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems or from external events including data or network security breaches of FHN or of third parties affecting FHN or its clients. This risk is inherent in all businesses. Operational risk is divided into the following risk areas, which have been established at the corporate level to address these risks across the entire organization:
•Business Resilience
•Records Management
•Compliance/Legal (including Bank Secrecy Act)
•Program Governance
•Fiduciary
•Security/Fraud
•Financial (including disclosure controls and procedures)
•Information Technology (including cybersecurity)
•Model
•Vendor
•Insurance
Management, measurement, and reporting of operational risk are overseen by the Operational Risk, Fiduciary, Financial Governance, FHN Financial Risk, and Strategic Investment Board Committees. Key representatives from the business segments, operating units, and supporting units are represented on these committees as appropriate. These governance committees manage the individual operational risk types across FHN by setting standards, monitoring activity, initiating actions, and reporting exposures and results. Key Committee activities and decisions are reported to the appropriate governance committee or included in the Enterprise Risk Report, a quarterly analysis of risk within the organization that is provided to the Risk Committee. Emphasis is dedicated to
refinement of processes and tools to aid in measuring and managing material operational risks and providing for a culture of awareness and accountability.
Compliance Risk Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, or loss to reputation as a result of failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, self-regulatory organization standards, and codes of conduct applicable to FHN’s activities. Management, measurement, and reporting of compliance risk are overseen by the Operational Risk Committee and other key Corporate Governance Committees. Key executives
from the business segments, legal, compliance, risk management, and service functions are represented on the Committees. Summary reports of Committee activities and decisions are provided to the appropriate governance committees. Reports include the status of regulatory activities, internal compliance program initiatives, compliance testing and internal audit results and evaluation of emerging compliance risk areas.
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower’s or counterparty’s ability to meet its financial obligations under agreed upon terms. FHN is subject to credit risk in lending, trading, investing, liquidity/funding, and asset management activities although lending activities have the most exposure to credit risk. The nature and amount of credit risk depends on the types of transactions, the structure of those transactions, collateral received, the use of guarantors and the parties involved.
FHN assesses and manages credit risk through a series of policies, processes, measurement systems, and controls. The Credit Risk Management Committee is responsible for overseeing the management of existing and emerging credit risks in the company within the broad risk tolerances established by the Board. The CRMC reports through the Management Risk Committee. The Credit Risk Management function, led by the Chief Credit Officer, provides strategic and tactical credit leadership by maintaining policies, overseeing credit approval, assessing new credit products, strategies and processes, and managing portfolio composition and performance.
While the Credit Risk function oversees FHN’s credit risk management, there is significant coordination between the business lines and the Credit Risk function in order to manage FHN’s credit risk and maintain strong asset quality. The Credit Risk function recommends portfolio, industry/sector, and individual client limits to the Risk Committee of the Board for approval. Adherence to these approved limits is vigorously monitored by Credit Risk which provides recommendations to slow or cease lending to the business lines as commitments near established lending limits. Credit Risk also ensures subject matter
experts are providing oversight, support and credit approvals, particularly in the specialty lending areas where industry-specific knowledge is required. Management emphasizes general portfolio servicing such that emerging risks are able to be spotted early enough to correct potential deficiencies, prevent further credit deterioration, and mitigate credit losses.
The Credit Risk Management function assesses the asset quality trends and results, as well as lending processes, adherence to underwriting guidelines (portfolio-specific underwriting guidelines are discussed further in the Asset Quality Trends section), and utilizes this information to inform management regarding the current state of credit quality and as a factor of the estimation process for determining the allowance for credit losses. The CRMC reviews on a periodic basis various reports issued by assurance functions which provide an independent assessment of the adequacy of loan servicing, grading accuracy, and other key functions. Additionally, CRMC is presented with and discusses various portfolios, lending activity and lending-related projects.
All of the above activities are subject to independent review by FHN’s Credit Assurance Services Group. CAS reports to the Chief Audit Executive, who is appointed by and reports to the Audit Committee of the Board, and provides quarterly reports to the Risk Committee of the Board. CAS is charged with providing the Risk Committee of the Board and executive management with independent, objective, and timely assessments of FHN’s portfolio quality, credit policies, and credit risk management processes.
Liquidity Risk Management
Among other things, ALCO is responsible for liquidity management: the funding of assets with liabilities of appropriate duration, while mitigating the risk of unexpected cash needs. ALCO and the Board of Directors have adopted a Liquidity Policy of which the objective is to ensure that FHN meets its cash and collateral obligations
promptly, in a cost-effective manner and with the highest degree of reliability. The maintenance of adequate levels of asset and liability liquidity should provide FHN with the ability to meet both expected and unexpected cash and collateral needs. Key liquidity ratios, asset liquidity levels, and the amount available from funding sources are


reported to ALCO on a regular basis. FHN’s Liquidity Policy establishes liquidity limits that are deemed appropriate for FHN’s risk profile.
In accordance with the Liquidity Policy, ALCO manages FHN’s exposure to liquidity risk through a dynamic, real time forecasting methodology. Base liquidity forecasts are reviewed by ALCO and are updated as financial conditions dictate. In addition to the baseline liquidity reports, robust stress testing of assumptions and funds availability are periodically reviewed. FHN maintains a contingency funding plan that may be executed should unexpected difficulties arise in accessing funding that affects FHN, the industry, or both. Subject to market conditions and compliance with applicable regulatory requirements from time to time, funds are available from a number of sources, including the available-for-sale securities portfolio, dealer and commercial customer repurchase agreements, access to the overnight and term Federal Funds markets, incremental borrowing capacity at the FHLB ($13.9 billion was available at December 31, 2022), brokered deposits, loan sales, syndications, and access to the Federal Reserve Bank.
Core deposits are a significant source of funding and have historically been a stable source of liquidity for banks. Generally, core deposits represent funding from a financial institution's client base which provides inexpensive, predictable pricing. The ratio of average loans, excluding loans HFS and restricted real estate loans, to average core deposits was 82% on December 31, 2022 and 80% on December 31, 2021.
FHN may also use unsecured short-term borrowings as a source of liquidity. Federal funds purchased from correspondent bank clients are considered to be substantially more stable than funds purchased in the national broker markets for federal funds due to the long, historical, and reciprocal nature of banking services provided by FHN to these correspondent banks. The remainder of FHN’s wholesale short-term borrowings consists of securities sold under agreements to repurchase transactions accounted for as secured borrowings with business clients or broker dealer counterparties.
Both FHN and First Horizon Bank have the ability to generate liquidity by issuing senior or subordinated unsecured debt, preferred equity, and common equity, subject to market conditions and compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In February 2022, FHN issued and sold to TD 4,936 shares of Series G Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock in a private placement transaction for $494 million. As of December 31, 2022, FHN had outstanding $1.3 billion in senior and subordinated unsecured debt and $1.0 billion in non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. As of December 31, 2022, First Horizon Bank and subsidiaries had outstanding preferred shares of $295 million, which
are reflected as noncontrolling interest on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Parent company liquidity is primarily provided by cash flows stemming from dividends and interest payments collected from subsidiaries. These sources of cash represent the primary sources of funds to pay cash dividends to shareholders and principal and interest to debt holders of FHN. The amount paid to the parent company through First Horizon Bank common dividends is managed as part of FHN’s overall cash management process, subject to applicable regulatory restrictions. Certain regulatory restrictions exist regarding the ability of First Horizon Bank to transfer funds to FHN in the form of cash, common dividends, loans, or advances. At any given time, the pertinent portions of those regulatory restrictions allow First Horizon Bank to declare preferred or common dividends without prior regulatory approval in an aggregate amount equal to First Horizon Bank’s retained net income for the two most recently completed years plus the current year-to-date period. For any period, First Horizon Bank’s "retained net income" generally is equal to First Horizon Bank’s regulatory net income reduced by the preferred and common dividends declared by First Horizon Bank. Applying the dividend restrictions imposed under applicable federal and state rules as outlined above, the Bank’s total amount available for dividends was $893 million as of January 1, 2023. Consequently, on that date the Bank could pay common dividends up to that amount to its sole common shareholder, FHN, or to its preferred shareholders without prior regulatory approval. Additionally, a capital conservation buffer must be maintained (as described in the Capital section of this Report) to avoid restrictions on dividends.
In March 2022, FHN agreed to suspend the Dividend Reinvestment Plan in connection with the Pending TD Merger. As a result of the suspension of the Plan, participants in the Plan received their first quarter 2022 FHN dividend, paid on April 1, 2022, in cash. During the suspension period, dividend payments of FHN will not be automatically reinvested in additional shares of FHN common stock and participants in the Plan will be unable to purchase shares of FHN common stock through optional cash investments under the Plan.
First Horizon Bank declared and paid common dividends to the parent company in the amount of $435 million in 2022 and $770 million in 2021. In January 2023, First Horizon Bank declared and paid a common dividend to the parent company in the amount of $110 million. First Horizon Bank paid preferred dividends in each quarter of 2022 and 2021 and declared preferred dividends in the first quarter of 2023 which are payable in April 2023.
Payment of a dividend to shareholders of FHN is dependent on several factors which are considered by the Board. These factors include FHN’s current and


prospective capital, liquidity, and other needs, applicable regulatory restrictions (including capital conservation buffer requirements) and availability of funds to FHN through a dividend from First Horizon Bank. Additionally, banking regulators generally require insured banks and bank holding companies to pay cash dividends only out of current operating earnings. Consequently, the decision of whether FHN will pay future dividends and the amount of dividends will be affected by current operating results.
FHN paid a cash dividend of $0.15 per common share on January 3, 2023. FHN paid cash dividends of $1,625 per Series E preferred share and $1,175 per Series F preferred share on January 10, 2023 and $331.25 per Series B preferred share and $165 per Series C preferred share on February 1, 2023. In addition, in January 2023, the Board approved cash dividends per share in the following amounts:
Although we do not expect the Pending TD Merger to be completed before March 17, 2023 (the common stock record date), if it is, the common stock dividend described above will not be paid.
The FHN preferred stock and the First Horizon Bank Class A preferred stock will remain outstanding after the closing of the Pending TD Merger. If, following the closing of the Pending TD Merger, TD elects to effect the merger of FHN into TD Bank US Holding Company, at the effective time of such merger, each share of FHN preferred stock described above will be automatically converted into a share of a newly created, corresponding series of preferred stock of TD Bank US Holding Company having terms that are not materially less favorable than those of the existing series
of FHN preferred stock. In addition, following the closing of the Pending TD Merger, at the effective time of the merger of First Horizon Bank into TDBNA, each share of First Horizon Bank Class A preferred stock will be automatically converted into a share of a newly created, corresponding series of preferred stock of TDBNA having terms that are not materially less favorable than those of the existing First Horizon Bank Class A preferred stock. The payment and timing of the dividends will not be impacted by any such conversion of the FHN preferred stock into TD Bank US Holding Company preferred stock or the First Horizon Bank Class A preferred stock into TDBNA preferred stock.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the normal course of business, FHN is a party to a number of activities that contain credit, market and operational risk that are not reflected in whole or in part in the consolidated financial statements. Such activities include traditional off-balance sheet credit-related financial instruments. FHN enters into commitments to extend credit to borrowers, including loan commitments, lines of credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit. Many of the commitments are expected to expire unused or be only partially used; therefore, the total amount of commitments does not necessarily represent future cash requirements and are not included in the table below. Based on its available liquidity and available borrowing capacity, FHN anticipates it will continue to have sufficient funds to meet its current commitments. See Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures for more information.
Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth contractual obligations representing required and potential cash outflows as of December 31, 2022. Purchase obligations represent obligations under agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on FHN and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.


Credit Ratings
FHN is currently able to fund a majority of the balance sheet through core deposits, which are generally not as sensitive to FHN’s credit ratings as other types of funding. However, maintaining adequate credit ratings on debt issues and preferred stock is critical to liquidity should FHN need to access funding from other sources, including from long-term debt issuances and certain brokered deposits, at an attractive rate. The availability and cost of funds other than core deposits is also dependent upon marketplace perceptions of the financial soundness of FHN, which include such factors as capital levels, asset
quality, and reputation. The availability of core deposit funding is stabilized by federal deposit insurance, which can be removed only in extraordinary circumstances, but may also be influenced to some extent by the same factors that affect other funding sources. FHN’s credit ratings are also referenced in various respects in agreements with certain derivative counterparties as discussed in Note 21 - Derivatives.
The following table provides FHN’s most recent credit ratings:
Repurchase Obligations
Prior to September 2008, legacy First Horizon originated loans through its pre-2009 mortgage business, primarily first lien home loans, with the intention of selling them. As discussed in Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures, FHN's principal remaining exposures for those activities relate to (i) indemnification claims by underwriters, loan purchasers, and other parties which assert that FHN-originated loans caused or contributed to losses which FHN is legally obliged to indemnify, and (ii) indemnification or other claims related to FHN's servicing of pre-2009 mortgage loans.
FHN’s approach for determining the adequacy of the repurchase and foreclosure reserve has evolved, sometimes substantially, based on changes in information available. Repurchase/make-whole rates vary based on purchaser, vintage, and claim type. For those loans repurchased or covered by a make-whole payment, cumulative average loss severities range between 50 and 60 percent of the UPB.
Repurchase Accrual Approach
In determining potential loss content, claims are analyzed by purchaser, vintage, and claim type. FHN considers various inputs including claim rate estimates, historical average repurchase and loss severity rates, mortgage insurance cancellations, and mortgage insurance curtailment requests. Inputs are applied to claims in the
active pipeline, as well as to historical average inflows to estimate loss content related to potential future inflows. Management also evaluates the nature of claims from purchasers and/or servicers of loans sold to determine if qualitative adjustments are appropriate.
Repurchase and Foreclosure Liability
FHN's repurchase and foreclosure liability, primarily related to its pre-2009 mortgage business, is comprised of accruals to cover estimated loss content in the active pipeline (consisting of mortgage loan repurchase, make-whole, foreclosure/servicing demands and certain related exposures), estimated future inflows, and estimated loss content related to certain known claims not currently included in the active pipeline. The liability contemplates repurchase/make-whole and damages obligations and estimates for probable incurred losses associated with loan populations excluded from the settlements with the
GSEs, as well as other whole loans sold, mortgage insurance cancellations rescissions, and loans included in bulk servicing sales effected prior to the settlements with the GSEs. FHN compares the estimated probable incurred losses determined under the applicable loss estimation approaches for the respective periods with current reserve levels. Changes in the estimated required liability levels are recorded as necessary through the repurchase and foreclosure provision. The repurchase and foreclosure liability was $16 million and $17 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Market Uncertainties and Prospective Trends
FHN’s future results could be affected both positively and negatively by several known trends. Key among those are changes in the U.S. and global economy and outlook, government actions affecting interest rates, and government actions and proposals which could have positive or negative impacts on the economy at large or on certain businesses, industries, or sectors.
Additional risks relate to how the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect FHN’s clients, political uncertainty,
changes in federal policies (including those publicly discussed, formally proposed, or recently implemented) and the potential impacts of those changes on our businesses and clients, and whether FHN’s strategic initiatives will succeed.


Inflation, Recession, and Federal Reserve Policy
Economic Overview
The year 2022 and 2023 to date was marked by: strong inflation (which began in 2021); the Federal Reserve implementing a "tightening" policy to contain inflation by rapidly increasing short-term interest rates and ending asset purchases; many indicators suggesting near-term recession; continuing supply-chain difficulties impacting many industries; and low unemployment rates. Several aspects of these events were unusual:
•Although the U.S. economy flirted with recession in 2022, it did not officially enter one. Instead, economic growth fluttered above and below zero, ending the year with very modest positive growth.
•Although recessionary expectations in 2022 were high much of the year, those did not translate into large negative shifts in spending or employment. Recessionary expectations remain elevated early in 2023, but the range of expectations, and uncertainty, is wide.
•Historically, while it is common for unemployment to rise only after a recession has begun, it is unusual for unemployment to remain low in the context of the events in 2022. The unemployment rate remains historically very low. With over 11 million job openings reported in the U.S. at the end of 2022, demand for labor remains strong. If recessionary pressures continue to grow, demand for labor eventually will abate. However, as 2022 showed, it is not clear that recessionary expectations will be borne out in 2023 or, if there is a recession, that it will be typical.
Amplifying inflationary pressures and general uncertainties, the Russian military invaded Ukraine in February 2022. A year later, that conflict continues. Much of Europe and the rest of the world, including the U.S., imposed economic sanctions on Russia for its attack, its ongoing military campaign resulting in substantial civilian casualties, and the manner in which it has prosecuted the war which, reportedly, has significantly violated several international conventions and treaties. The war and sanctions resulted in global oil and gas prices rising precipitously in early 2022, along with the prices of several other commodities exported by Russia, Ukraine, or both, including certain grains and vegetable oils. Oil prices have been volatile since then, but have oscillated around much higher price levels than before the war.
Federal Reserve and Rates
The Federal Reserve raised short-term rates several times in 2022 and again in January 2023. Recent public comments indicate that further raises will continue in 2023 until inflation is judged to be adequately controlled. The raises in 2022 were 75 and 50 basis points each, which was aggressive by historical standards, while the
January 2023 raise was a more-typical 25 basis points. The Federal Reserve has expressed its intent to bring inflation under control even at the risk of creating, or deepening, an economic recession. By raising rates, the Federal Reserve intends to curb demand in the U.S. for goods and services by making credit more expensive and reducing the amount of borrowed dollars generally. If supplies remain constant, curbing demand should curb inflation eventually.
FHN cannot predict exactly when or how much short-term rates will be raised, nor how market-driven long-term rates will behave, nor how those actions may affect financial markets, during 2023. However, currently FHN expects the Federal Reserve to adhere to its guidance and continue raising short-term rates. More specifically, FHN believes that the inverted yield curve indicates that the market expects short term rates to be near a peak. In contrast, FHN anticipates short term rates will increase in small increments in 2023, and will not start to fall quickly.
Yield Curve
During 2022, the yield curve flattened and modestly inverted at times in the first two quarters, and was inverted much of the last two quarters. Unusual yield curve effects, including inversion, may continue in 2023. A traditional measure of inversion occurs when the two-year U.S. Treasury rate is higher than the ten-year rate. Traditional inversion was sustained for most of the second half of 2022, which is very unusual. Sustained traditional yield curve inversion is viewed, with statistical support, as a harbinger of economic recession.
Recession
The U.S. economy contracted (experienced negative growth) during the first two quarters of 2022, and expanded during the second two, in all cases very modestly. Moreover, the inflation rate was lower in the second half of the year than in the first. Although second-half U.S. growth was a positive development, and the inflation rate is decelerating, inflation in the U.S. remains persistently high and, therefore, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue to hike interest rates.
Recession expectations in the U.S. were high in 2022 and continue to be elevated in 2023. Traditionally, when people and businesses expect a recession, they often change their behaviors in ways that make recession more likely: they borrow less, spend less, and invest less. Some of those behaviors have started—some companies in some industries have announced layoffs, for example, citing diminished business activities or expectations—but they have not become a broad trend yet.
Market Volatility
As a result of the prospects for recession, coupled with the uncertainties associated with the war in eastern Europe,


financial markets world-wide were volatile in 2022. Financial asset values broadly fell last year, especially during the second and third quarters. In the U.S., several major stock indices fell more than 20% from their most recent high levels, which conventionally means those indices entered a "bear" market.
Impacts on FHN
In several respects FHN has benefited significantly from rising rates. FHN is likely to continue to benefit as long as the rise in lending rates outpaces the rise in deposit and other funding rates.
However, some of FHN's businesses have been negatively impacted. The general increase in interest rates this year has pushed home mortgage rates in the U.S. higher. FHN's direct mortgage lending and lending to mortgage companies saw business decline significantly in 2022. If mortgage rates continue to rise, FHN's revenues and earnings from those areas likely will continue to fall substantially compared with 2021. Moreover, FHN's revenues from bond trading and related activities fell significantly in 2022 due to rising rates coupled with elevated market volatility.
More generally, a recession with still-rising rates likely would have a significant negative impact on FHN's businesses overall. Even if loan spreads continue to widen,
demand for loans is likely to fall, reserves for loan losses are likely to rise, many commercial activities that generate fee income are likely to decline, and competition for clients is likely to sharpen. FHN already has experienced some of these impacts. The deeper or longer a recession lasts, the more significant these negative impacts are likely to be for FHN.
Complicating the economic situation in the U.S. is the impact that Federal Reserve policy has had on the value of the U.S. dollar versus many other major currencies. The dollar rose substantially during much of 2022, resulting in: pressure on U.S. exports, which are relatively more expensive; a windfall for imports into the U.S., which are relatively cheaper; and pressure on non-U.S. borrowers of U.S. dollars and international buyers of goods traded mainly using U.S. dollars. The dollar's strength started to abate late in 2022 and continuing into 2023, but resurgence continues to be a risk. Although FHN is not directly and significantly impacted by a strong U.S. dollar, some clients have been and will continue to be. Moreover, other central banks have followed the lead of the Federal Reserve to support their respective currencies. As in the U.S., those tightening actions dampen economic activity and increase the risk of recession in those countries.
LIBOR & Reference Rate Reform
LIBOR
The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for many years was the most widely used reference rate in the world. A large but declining portion of FHN's floating rate loans use LIBOR, denominated in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), as the reference rate to determine the interest rate paid by the client/borrower. In addition, certain floating-rate securities issued by FHN use USD LIBOR as the reference rate.
LIBOR is based on a mix of transaction-based data and expert judgment about market conditions. It is published in different tenors, which are time periods such as 1-week, 1-month, 12-month, etc.
LIBOR Discontinuance
About a decade ago, evidence emerged that some members of the panel that set LIBOR may have manipulated the published LIBOR rates rather than using strictly good-faith judgments. Several banks were fined.
In 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”)—the governmental regulator of LIBOR—announced that it intended to halt persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. In 2021, the FCA announced that tenors of USD LIBOR would no longer be published as follows:
•One week and 2-month USD LIBOR would not be published after December 31, 2021; and
•All other USD LIBOR tenors (e.g., overnight, 1-month, 3-month, 6-month and 12-month tenors) would not be published after June 30, 2023.
U.S. Regulatory Position
In 2020, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC jointly encouraged U.S. banks to transition away from LIBOR for new contracts as soon as practicable and, in any event, by December 31, 2021. They noted that entering into new contracts that use LIBOR as a reference rate after December 31, 2021 would create safety and soundness risks.
U.S. Federal Legislation
In March 2022, Congress passed the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act. The legislation addresses loans that will remain on LIBOR as of the June 30, 2023 cessation date, and that either have no fallback provisions or that contain fallback provisions that do not identify a specific benchmark replacement. Per the legislation, at the final cessation of USD LIBOR, banks may cause such loans to fall back to a SOFR-based benchmark rate, with such rate to be selected by the Federal Reserve Board. The LIBOR Act also provides safe harbor from liability for banks that
select the Board-selected replacement benchmark rate at the cessation of LIBOR.
In December 2022, the Federal Reserve Board issued Regulation ZZ, its final rule to implement the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act.
Alternatives to LIBOR
LIBOR became the market-preferred reference rate because it was perceived by lenders and borrowers as being superior to alternatives in a wide range of circumstances. Now that the origination of LIBOR-indexed loans has ended, no single alternative reference rate has replaced LIBOR for USD transactions. Instead, a number of different reference rates are being used in different circumstances. These include:
•Daily SOFR. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) is a group of private-market and financial regulator participants convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Federal Reserve Bank to help ensure a successful transition from USD LIBOR to a more robust reference rate. The ARRC has recommended the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative. SOFR resets daily and is based on actual transaction data for the U.S. Treasury repurchase market. Accordingly, SOFR represents a nearly risk-free secured overnight rate.
•CME Term SOFR. Published by CME Group, Term SOFR is a forward-looking rate, with 1-month, 3-month, 6-month and 12-month tenors, and is based on SOFR futures contracts. The ARRC recommended conventions for Term SOFR rates, recommended CME Group as the administrator for Term SOFR, and recommended CME Group's Term SOFR rates. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation ZZ, issued in December 2022, identifies CME Term SOFR (plus a spread adjustment, as defined in the LIBOR Act) as the Board-selected replacement rate for the purposes of loans that are repriced in accordance with the LIBOR Act upon the June 2023 final cessation of LIBOR.
•AMERIBOR. The American Interbank Offered Rate (“AMERIBOR”) Index is produced by the American Financial Exchange. AMERIBOR is based on actual transaction data involving credit decisions by many financial institutions, on an unsecured basis.
•BSBY. The Bloomberg short-term bank yield index ("BSBY") is a proprietary rate index calculated and published by Bloomberg Index Services Limited. BSBY is based on actual transaction data involving unsecured credit.
•Prime. Although traditional prime rates (with each bank setting its own) are not likely to regain the prominence they had decades ago when U.S. banks were much smaller and the industry was more
fragmented, for some clients and products banks may increase their usage of prime rates.
The alternatives listed above were made available to the majority of FHN’s commercial clients starting in November 2021. In accordance with the U.S. regulatory position, FHN ceased entering into new LIBOR based contracts as of December 31, 2021.
Each alternative reference rate has advantages and disadvantages compared with other alternatives in various circumstances. Despite being supported by the ARRC and being the principal index used in interest rate derivatives in the post-LIBOR environment, Daily SOFR has not gained significant traction among middle market commercial borrowers. When assessing Daily SOFR, some borrowers have observed that the adoption of a rate with a daily reset introduces operational complexities, including changes to the loan's interest calculation and billing cycle. By contrast, CME Term SOFR is a rate that: 1) like LIBOR, has rate reset tenors of monthly or longer and 2) like Daily SOFR, carries the endorsement of the ARRC. For these reasons, CME Term SOFR has gained traction among many middle market commercial borrowers.
All of the alternative reference rates selected by FHN to date meet the International Organization of Securities Commissions ("IOSCO") Principles for Financial Benchmarks, as affirmed by the rate administrator and/or an independent auditor. While banking regulators have stated that banks are free to choose the index rates they offer clients, some public sector officials have urged caution in using the new credit sensitive alternative reference rates (a category that includes BSBY and AMERIBOR), primarily due to the robustness of underlying data used to derive the rates. More specifically, there is concern of an “inverted pyramid” effect where a large number of financial contracts could be priced using an index derived from a relatively low volume of transactions. In an interagency statement on October 20, 2021, U.S. banking regulatory agencies noted that “supervised institutions should understand how their chosen reference rate is constructed and be aware of any fragilities associated with that rate and the markets that underlie it”. IOSCO has also warned of the potential for the “inverted pyramid” problem and will monitor how the IOSCO label is used by administrators.
FHN is monitoring the credit sensitive reference rates and regulatory guidance around use of such rates. Additionally, FHN expects that each financial contract will contain fallback language to guide transition from a credit sensitive rate to an alternative should that action be deemed necessary in the future. Thus far, the use of credit sensitive alternative reference rates by FHN and its clients has been limited.
FHN's Actions to Date & Transition Plans
Starting in 2019, FHN modernized the fallback language used in its loan documentation to better handle how
floating rate loans would be re-set if LIBOR ceased to be published during the loan term.
In the fourth quarter of 2021, FHN ceased using USD LIBOR for new lending and renegotiated terms with clients whose loans are based on 1-week or 2-month USD LIBOR, which ceased publication at the end of 2021. Only a small portion of FHN's clients had such loans.
On the consumer side, FHN began transitioning from LIBOR-based adjustable rate mortgages ("ARMs") to SOFR-based ARMs in November 2021, and no longer offers LIBOR-based ARMs. SOFR has emerged as a market standard for ARMs in the U.S. and is the conforming convention for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
For all products, FHN developed a go-to-market strategy which included pricing considerations, associate training, and client communications. All required systems, processes, and reporting were updated to accommodate the transition. FHN ceased origination of new contracts tied to LIBOR on December 31, 2021.
In addition, FHN has established a LIBOR Transition Office to assist associates in working with their clients to re-negotiate terms of loan and derivative contracts that extend past the June 30, 2023 cessation date for the remaining USD LIBOR tenors noted above. Since November 2021, FHN bankers have been amending the pricing of existing LIBOR-based commercial loans via a rate change at the time of loan renewal or via amendments to the loan documents to change the benchmark rate. Additionally, FHN bankers and FHNF derivatives marketers are amending interest rate derivative contracts whose tenors extend beyond the June 30, 2023 final cessation date of LIBOR.
While FHN has exposure to LIBOR in various contracts (e.g. securities, derivatives), FHN's primary exposure to LIBOR is in floating rate loans to customers and derivative contracts issued to customers through FHN Financial. Below is a summary of these exposures as of December 31, 2022:
Financial Accounting Aspects
In 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, “Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting,” which provides several optional expedients and exceptions to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The scope of ASU 2020-04 was expanded in 2021 with ASU 2021-01, "Scope". Refer to the Accounting Changes With Extended Transition Periods section of Note 1 - Significant Accounting Policies for additional information.
In December 2022, the FASB issued ASU 2022-06, "Deferral of the Sunset Date of Topic 848" which extends the transition window for ASU 2020-04 from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2024, consistent with key USD LIBOR tenors continuing to be published through June 30, 2023.
U.S. Tax Accommodation
On December 30, 2021, the IRS released final guidance that is intended to facilitate the transition of existing contracts from LIBOR to new reference rates without triggering modification accounting or taxable exchange treatment for those contracts. This guidance specifies what must be met in order to qualify for the beneficial transition approach and FHN is considering this guidance in its transition plans.
Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
Management’s policy is to maintain the ALLL at a level sufficient to absorb expected credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio. Management performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its loan and lease portfolio to identify trends and to assess the overall collectability of the portfolio. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the ALLL is a “critical accounting estimate” as: (1) changes in it can materially affect the provision for loan and lease losses and net income, (2) it requires management to predict borrowers’ likelihood or capacity to repay, including evaluation of inherently uncertain future economic conditions, (3) prepayment
activity must be projected to estimate the life of loans that often are shorter than contractual terms, (4) it requires estimation of a reasonable and supportable forecast period for credit losses for loan portfolio segments before reversion to historical loss levels over the remaining life of a loan and (5) expected future recoveries of amounts previously charged off must be estimated. Accordingly, this is a highly subjective process and requires significant judgment since it is difficult to evaluate current and future economic conditions in relation to an overall credit cycle and estimate the timing
and extent of loss events that are expected to occur prior to the end of a loan’s and lease's estimated life.
FHN believes that the principal assumptions underlying the accounting estimates made by management include: (1) the commercial loan portfolio has been properly risk graded based on information about borrowers in specific industries and specific issues with respect to single borrowers; (2) borrower specific information made available to FHN is current and accurate; (3) the loan portfolio has been segmented properly and individual loans have similar credit risk characteristics and will behave similarly; (4) the lives for loan portfolio pools have been estimated properly, including consideration of expected prepayments; (5) the economic forecasts utilized and associated weighting selected by management in the modeling of expected credit losses are reflective of future economic conditions; (6) entity-specific historical loss information has been properly assessed for all loan portfolio segments as the initial basis for estimating expected credit losses; (7) the reasonable and supportable periods for loan portfolio segments have been properly determined; (8) the reversion methodologies and timeframes for migration from the reasonable and supportable period to the use of historical loss rates are reasonable; (9) expected recoveries of prior charge off amounts have been properly estimated; and (10) qualitative adjustments to modeled loss results reasonably reflect expected future credit losses as of the date of the financial statements.
While management uses the best information available to establish the ALLL, future adjustments to the ALLL and methodology may be necessary if economic or other conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the estimates. Such adjustments to prior estimates, as necessary, are made in the period in which these factors and other relevant considerations indicate that loss levels vary from previous estimates.
Selection and weighting of macroeconomic forecasts are the most significant inputs in quantitative ALLL calculations. Due to the sensitivity of the ALLL determination to macroeconomic forecasts, changes in those forecasts can result in materially different results between reporting periods. In the determination of the ALLL as of December 31, 2022, FHN utilized Moody's Baseline, S1 (more favorable) and S2 (adverse) scenarios for the calculation of the ALLL. FHN placed the most weight on Moody's Baseline scenario but also included weightings for S1 and S2 scenarios, primarily to reflect the uncertainty of macroeconomic forecasts associated with high inflation and the Federal Reserve's response with higher interest rates, international and domestic supply-chain issues, and labor challenges. All of these factors contribute to an increased likelihood of recession in 2023.
Due to the dynamic relationship of macroeconomic inputs in modeling calculations, quantifying the effects of changing individual inputs is highly challenging. Additionally, management applies judgment in developing qualitative adjustments that are considered necessary to appropriately reflect elements of credit risk that are not captured in the quantitative model results. To provide some hypothetical sensitivity analysis, FHN prepared two alternate quantitative calculations, applying 100% weighting to Moody's Baseline and S2 (adverse) scenarios. These hypothetical calculations resulted in a 2% reduction and 9% increase, respectively, in ALLL in comparison to the ALLL recorded at December 31, 2022, inclusive of qualitative adjustments that are affected by the weighting of forecast scenarios.
See Note 1 - Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4 - Allowance for Credit Losses for detail regarding FHN’s processes, models, and methodology for determining the ALLL.
Income Taxes
FHN is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and the states and jurisdictions in which it operates. FHN accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, "Income Taxes". Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of the consolidated income tax expense. FHN income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid.
Income tax expense consists of both current and deferred taxes. Current income tax expense is an estimate of taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense related to uncertain tax positions. A DTA or a DTL is recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and
liabilities. Deferred taxes can be affected by changes in tax rates applicable to future years, either as a result of statutory changes or business changes that may change the jurisdictions in which taxes are paid. Additionally, DTAs are subject to a “more likely than not” test to determine whether the full amount of the DTAs should be realized in the financial statements. FHN evaluates the likelihood of realization of the DTA based on both positive and negative evidence available at the time, including (as appropriate) scheduled reversals of DTLs, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Realization is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the carryforwards attributable to or generated with respect to the DTA. In projecting future taxable income, FHN incorporates assumptions including
the amount of future state and federal pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates used to manage the underlying business. If the “more likely than not” test is not met, a valuation allowance must be established against the DTA.
The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which FHN operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In determining if a tax position should be recognized and in establishing a provision for income tax expense, FHN must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. Interpretations may be subjected to review during examination by taxing
authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. FHN attempts to resolve disputes that may arise during the tax examination and audit process. However, certain disputes may ultimately be resolved through the federal and state court systems.
FHN monitors relevant tax authorities and revises estimates of accrued income taxes on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimates may occur due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. Revisions of estimates may also result from income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies. Revisions in estimates may be material to operating results for any given period.
See Note 14 - Income Taxes for additional information including discussion of valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets and the potential impact of unrecognized tax benefits on future earnings.
Contingent Liabilities
A liability is contingent if the amount or outcome is not presently known, but may become known in the future as a result of the occurrence of some uncertain future event. FHN estimates its contingent liabilities based on management’s estimates about the probability of outcomes and their ability to estimate the range of exposure. Accounting standards require that a liability be recorded if management determines that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, it must be probable that the loss will be confirmed by some future event. As part of the estimation process, management is required to make assumptions about matters that are by their nature highly uncertain and difficult to estimate.
The assessment of contingent liabilities, including legal contingencies, involves the use of critical estimates, assumptions, and judgments. Management’s estimates are based on their belief that future events will validate
the current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of these exposures. However, there can be no assurance that future events, such as court decisions or decisions of arbitrators, will not differ from management’s assessments. Whenever practicable, management consults with third-party experts (e.g., attorneys, accountants, claims administrators, etc.) to assist with the gathering and evaluation of information related to contingent liabilities. Based on internally and/or externally prepared evaluations, management makes a determination whether the potential exposure requires accrual in the financial statements.
See Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures for additional information regarding FHN's existing material contingent liabilities, including those with and without loss accruals, and discussion of reasonably possible loss amounts for pending litigation matters.
Accounting Changes
Refer to Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies for a detail of accounting changes with extended transition periods and accounting changes issued but not currently
effective, which section is incorporated into this MD&A by this reference.
Non-GAAP Information
Certain measures are included in this report are “non-GAAP”, meaning they are not presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and also are not codified in U.S. banking regulations currently applicable to FHN. Although other entities may use calculation methods that differ from those used by FHN for non-GAAP measures, FHN’s management believes such measures are relevant to understanding the capital position or financial results of FHN and its business segments. Non-GAAP measures are
reported to FHN’s management and Board of Directors through various internal reports.
The non-GAAP measures presented in this report are: pre-provision net revenue, return on average tangible common equity, tangible common equity to tangible assets, adjusted tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets, tangible book value per common share, and loans and leases excluding PPP loans. Table 7.29 appearing in
the MD&A (Item 7 of Part II) of this report provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP items presented in this report to the most comparable GAAP presentation.
Presentation of regulatory measures, even those which are not GAAP, provide a meaningful base for comparability to other financial institutions subject to the same regulations as FHN, as demonstrated by their use by banking regulators in reviewing capital adequacy of financial institutions. Although not GAAP terms, these regulatory measures are not considered “non-GAAP” under U.S. financial reporting rules as long as their presentation conforms to regulatory standards. Regulatory measures used in this MD&A include: common equity tier 1 capital, generally defined as common equity
less goodwill, other intangibles, and certain other required regulatory deductions; tier 1 capital, generally defined as the sum of core capital (including common equity and instruments that cannot be redeemed at the option of the holder) adjusted for certain items under risk based capital regulations; and risk-weighted assets, which is a measure of total on- and off-balance sheet assets adjusted for credit and market risk, used to determine regulatory capital ratios.
The following table provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP items presented in this MD&A to the most comparable GAAP presentation: