 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts . Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to &#8220;State Street,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with $34.36 trillion of AUC/A and $3.12 trillion of AUM as of December 31, 2019 . 

As of December 31, 2019 , we had consolidated total assets of $245.61 billion , consolidated total deposits of $181.87 billion , consolidated total shareholders' equity of $24.43 billion and over 39,000 employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. 

On the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K . 

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology and Operations Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance." 

We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including 

&#160;

supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are available on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website under "Filings and Reports." 

We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary under Item 8 in this Form 10-K . 

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 

Overview 

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. 

Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. 

LINES OF BUSINESS 

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. 

Investme nt Servicing 

Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. 

Our Investment Servicing products and services include: custody; product and participant level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by non-U.S. regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, 

State Street Corporation | 4 

brokerage and other trading services; securities finance and enhanced custody products; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors. 

Included within our Investment Servicing line of business is Charles River Systems, Inc. (CRD), which we acquired on October 1, 2018. As a result of our acquisition of CRD, we are extending our core capabilities by creating our State Street Alpha SM platform (State Street Alpha) that combines our core back and middle office services with front office solutions across all asset classes for portfolio management, trading and compliance. Products and services related to CRD include: portfolio modeling and construction, trade order management, investment risk and compliance and wealth management solutions. 

We provide some or all of the Investment Servicing integrated products and services to clients in the U.S. and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg and the U.K. As of December 31, 2019 , we serviced AUC/A of approximately $25.02 trillion in the Americas, approximately $7.33 trillion in Europe and the Middle East and approximately $2.02 trillion in the Asia-Pacific region. 

Investment M anagement 

Our Investment Management line of business , through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and Global Fiduciary Solutions (formerly Outsourced Chief Investment Officer). State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR &#174; ETF brand. While management fees are primarily determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including the benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. As of December 31, 2019 , State Street Global Advisors had AUM of approximately $3.12 trillion . 

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under &#8220;Line of Business Information&#8221; included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements 

&#160;

in this Form 10-K . Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is included in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K . 

COMPET ITION 

We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business globally. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytics businesses, business service and software companies and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. 

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. Technological expertise, economies of scale, required levels of capital, pricing, quality and scope of services, and sales and marketing are critical to our Investment Servicing line of business. For our Investment Management line of business, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service, price, efficiency of our products and services, and performance. 

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to integrate existing and future products and services effectively into our State Street Alpha, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. 

We are a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities. Most other financial institutions designated as systemically important have substantially greater financial resources and a broader base of operations than us and are, consequently, in a better competitive position to manage and bear the costs of this enhanced regulatory requirement. See "Supervision and Regulation" in this Item for more information. 

State Street Corporation | 5 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act generally limits the activities in which bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries may engage to managing or controlling banks and to a range of activities that are considered to be closely related to banking. Bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as the Parent Company, may engage in a broader range of activities considered to be "financial in nature." The regulatory limits on our activities also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to &#8220;control&#8221; for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. 

The Parent Company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company and, as such, may engage in a broader range of non-banking activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly, either de novo or by acquisition, in activities that are defined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature, provided that the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are expected to be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may result in restrictions on our activities and may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature. Currently, under the Bank Holding 

&#160;

Company Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses. 

In response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors, such as technological and market changes, both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which our business is subject have increased in recent years. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. The U.S. President issued an executive order that sets forth principles for the reform of the federal financial regulatory framework, and, in May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA) was enacted. The EGRRCPA&#8217;s revisions to the U.S. financial regulatory framework have altered certain laws and regulations applicable to us and other major financial services firms. Irrespective of any regulatory change, we expect that our business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

In addition, increased regulatory requirements have been and are being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III rule (refer to &#8220;Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards&#8221; in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section and under "Capital" in &#8220;Financial Condition&#8221; in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III), the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation ( EMIR ), the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ( UCITS ) directives, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II ( MiFID II), the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR) and the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. 

Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards 

Basel III Rule 

The Parent Company and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to the Basel III framework in the U.S. Provisions 

State Street Corporation | 6 

of the Basel III rule that became fully implemented as of January 1, 2019. Since January 2013, we have been subject to the market risk capital rule jointly issued by U.S. banking regulators to implement the changes to the market risk capital framework in the U.S. 

The Basel III rule provides for two frameworks for the calculation of RWA for purposes of bank regulatory compliance: the &#8220;standardized&#8221; approach and the &#8220;advanced&#8221; approaches, which are applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like us. The standardized approach prescribes standardized risk weights for certain on- and off-balance sheet exposures in the calculation of RWA. The advanced approaches consist of the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based Approach (AIRB) used for the calculation of RWA related to credit risk, and the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) used for the calculation of RWA related to operational risk. 

Among other things, the Basel III rule requires: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

a minimum CET1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and a minimum SLR of 3% for advanced approaches banking organizations; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

a minimum total capital ratio of 8%; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

the capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers, referenced below, as well as a G-SIB surcharge included under "Capital" in "Financial Condition" in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K ; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

the previously described standardized approach to replace the calculation of credit RWA under Basel I; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

the advanced approaches for the calculation of credit RWA. 

##TABLE_END Under the Basel III rule, our total regulatory capital is composed of three tiers: CET1 capital, tier 1 capital (which includes CET1 capital), and tier 2 capital. The total of tier 1 and tier 2 capital, adjusted as applicable, is referred to as total regulatory capital. 

CET1 capital is composed of core capital elements, such as qualifying common shareholders' equity and related surplus; retained earnings; the cumulative effect of foreign currency translation; and net unrealized gains (losses) on debt and equity securities classified as AFS; reduced by treasury stock. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities, are deducted from the core CET1 capital elements. Tier 1 capital is composed of CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital instruments which, for us, includes five series of preferred equity outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Tier 2 capital includes certain eligible subordinated long-term debt instruments. The Basel III phase-in and phase-out schedules for calculating regulatory capital that apply to State Street have concluded and our capital measures are considered fully phased-in. Minimum 

&#160;

capital ratio, buffer, and G-SIB surcharge requirements became fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019. 

Certain other items, if applicable, must be deducted from tier 1 and tier 2 capital. These items primarily include deductible investments in unconsolidated banking, financial and insurance entities where we hold more than 50% of the entities' capital and the amount of expected credit losses that exceeds recorded allowances for loan and other credit losses. Expected credit losses are calculated for wholesale credit exposures by formula in conformity with the Basel III rule. 

The eight U.S. banks deemed to be G-SIBs, including us, are required to calculate the G-SIB surcharge annually according to two methods, and be bound by the higher of the two: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Method 1: Assesses systemic importance based upon five equally-weighted components: size, interconnectedness, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity and substitutability; or 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Method 2: Alters the calculation from Method 1 by factoring in a wholesale funding score in place of substitutability and applying a 2x multiplier to the sum of the five components. 

##TABLE_END Method 2 at December 31, 2019 is the binding methodology for us, and our applicable surcharge for 2019 was calculated to be 1.5% based on a calculation date of December 31, 2017. Based on a calculation date of December 31, 2018, our G-SIB capital surcharge for 2020 will be reduced to 1.0%. Assuming a countercyclical buffer of 0%, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2020, including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and a G-SIB surcharge of 1.0% in 2020, are 8.0% for CET1 capital, 9.5% for tier 1 risk-based capital and 11.5% for total risk-based capital, in order for us to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments without limitation. 

Since January 1, 2018, the U.S. banking regulators have required (i) the eight U.S. G-SIBs, including us, to maintain a minimum SLR of 5% in order to avoid any limitations on distributions to shareholders and discretionary bonus payments to certain executives and (ii) the insured depository institution subsidiaries of such G-SIBs (in our case, State Street Bank) to maintain a minimum SLR of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. On April 11, 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed modifications to the SLR that would replace the current 2% SLR buffer applicable to us with a SLR buffer equal to 50% of our applicable G-SIB capital surcharge. Currently we are subject to a 2% leverage buffer under the Basel III rule, subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s proposed changes to the SLR. If we fail to maintain the 2% leverage buffer, we will be subject to restrictions regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments, which will be increasingly stringent based upon the extent of the shortfall. 

State Street Corporation | 7 

In addition to the SLR, we are subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets and does not include any off-balance sheet exposures. 

Furthermore, EGRRCPA directed the U.S. banking regulators to amend their regulations to exclude certain central bank balances from the measure of total leverage exposure, the SLR denominator, for custody banks (including the Parent Company and State Street Bank). Specifically, central bank balances would be excluded to the extent of the value of client deposits at the custody bank that are linked to fiduciary, custody or safekeeping accounts. In November 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other U.S. federal banking agencies adopted a final rule that establishes a deduction for central bank deposits from a custodial banking organization&#8217;s total leverage exposure equal to the lesser of (i) the total amount of funds the custodial banking organization and its consolidated subsidiaries have on deposit at qualifying central banks and (ii) the total amount of client funds on deposit at the custodial banking organization that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts. The rule becomes effective on April 1, 2020. In the quarter ended December 31, 2019, we estimated $48.87 billion of average balances held on deposit at central banks will be excluded from the SLR denominator under our interpretation of the rule, which would impact the SLR by approximately 150 bps. The TLAC and LTD that State Street is required to hold as calculated under the current requirements will also be reduced as a consequence of the rule . 

Under the Basel III rule, a banking organization would be able to make capital distributions (subject to other regulatory constraints, such as regulatory review of its capital plans) and discretionary bonus payments without specified limitations, as long as it maintains the required capital conservation buffer of 2.5% plus the applicable G-SIB surcharge (plus any potentially applicable countercyclical capital buffer) over the minimum required risk-based capital ratios and well capitalized leverage based requirements. Banking regulators would establish the minimum countercyclical capital buffer, which was initially set by banking regulators at zero, up to a maximum of 2.5% of total RWAs under certain economic conditions. The Federal Reserve has proposed changes to its stress testing and capital planning rules that would replace the capital conservation buffer with a Stress Capital Buffer. For additional information about the proposal, refer to &#8220;Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends&#8221; in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. 

On November 19, 2019, the U.S. federal banking regulators issued a final rule that, among other things, implements the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), a new methodology for calculating the exposure amount for derivative contracts under the 

&#160;

U.S. regulatory capital rules. Under the final rule, which contains some modifications from the related proposal issued by the U.S. federal banking regulators on October 30, 2018, we will have the option to use the SA-CCR or the Internal Model Methodology (IMM) to measure the exposure amount of our cleared and uncleared derivative transactions under our advanced approaches calculation. We will be required to determine the amount of these exposures using the SA-CCR under our standardized approach capital calculation. In addition, the final rule provides a simplified formula we will be required to use to determine the RWA amount of our central counterparty default fund contributions. The final rule also requires us to incorporate the SA-CCR into the calculation of our total leverage exposure for the purpose of calculating SLR. The effective date of this final rule implementing the SA-CCR is April 1, 2020, with a mandatory compliance date for advanced approaches organizations, like us, of January 1, 2022. 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to a permanent "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of our regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer described above in this "Supervision and Regulation" section. Our risk-based capital ratios for regulatory assessment purposes are the lower of each ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. 

As a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Our status as a G-SIB has also resulted in heightened prudential and conduct expectations of our U.S. and international regulators with respect to our capital and liquidity management and our compliance and risk oversight programs. These heightened expectations have increased our regulatory compliance costs, including personnel, technology and systems, as well as significant additional implementation and related costs to enhance our regulatory compliance programs. Regulatory compliance requirements are anticipated to remain at least at the elevated levels we have experienced over the past several years. 

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business, including those that are described above in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section. 

Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same additional capital requirements. 

State Street Corporation | 8 

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to "Capital" in &#8220;Financial Condition" in our Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K . 

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity 

In 2016, the Federal Reserve released its final rule on TLAC, LTD and clean holding company requirements for U.S. domiciled G-SIBs, such as us. The requirements are intended to improve the resiliency and resolvability of certain U.S. banking organizations through enhanced prudential standards. The TLAC rule imposes: (1) external TLAC requirements (i.e., combined eligible tier 1 regulatory capital and LTD); (2) separate external LTD requirements; and (3) clean holding company requirements that impose restrictions on certain types of liabilities and limit non-TLAC related third party liabilities to 5% of external TLAC. 

Among other things, the TLAC rule required us to comply with minimum requirements for external TLAC and external LTD as of January 1, 2019. Specifically, as of January 1, 2019, we must hold (1) combined eligible tier 1 regulatory capital and LTD in the amount equal to the greater of 21.5% of total RWA (18.0% minimum plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer plus a G-SIB surcharge calculated for these purposes under Method 1 of 1.0%) and 9.5% of total leverage exposure (7.5% minimum plus the eSLR buffer of 2.0%), as defined by the SLR rule; and (2) qualifying external LTD equal to the greater of 7.5% of RWA (6.0% minimum plus a G-SIB surcharge calculated for these purposes under method 2 of 1.5%) and 4.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR rule. With our 2020 G-SIB surcharge of 1.0%, our LTD RWA requirement will decrease from 7.5% to 7.0% as of January 1, 2020. 

We requested and received from the Federal Reserve, an extension from January 1, 2019 to April 1, 2020, for compliance with the LTD SLR requirements of the rule to align with the implementation of EGRRCPA discussed above. 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio 

In addition to capital standards, the Basel III rule introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the LCR and the NSFR. 

We are subject to the rule issued by the U.S. banking regulators implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's (BCBS) LCR in the U.S. The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking organizations, like us, to improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from market stress over a 30 calendar day period and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. 

&#160;

The LCR measures an institution&#8217;s HQLA against its net cash outflows under a prescribed stress environment. We report LCR to the Federal Reserve daily and are required to calculate and maintain an LCR that is equal to or greater than 100%. In addition, we publicly disclose certain qualitative and quantitative information about our LCR consistent with the requirements of the Federal Reserve's December 2016 final rule. 

Compliance with the LCR has required that we maintain an investment portfolio that contains an adequate amount of HQLA. In general, HQLA investments generate a lower investment return than other types of investments, resulting in a negative impact on our NII and our NIM. In addition, the level of HQLA we are required to maintain under the LCR is dependent upon our client relationships and the nature of services we provide, which may change over time. Deposits resulting from certain services provided (&#8220;operational deposits&#8221;) are treated as more resilient during periods of stress than other deposits. As a result, if balances of operational deposits increased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require less HQLA in order to maintain our LCR. Conversely, if balances of operational deposits decreased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require more HQLA. 

The BCBS has also issued final guidance with respect to the NSFR. In 2016, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Federal Reserve and FDIC issued a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. that is largely consistent with the BCBS guidance. The proposal would require banking organizations to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to its equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than the amount of its required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to its assets, derivatives exposures, and certain other off-balance sheet exposures based on their liquidity characteristics. 

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual CCAR framework. CCAR is used by the Federal Reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, we must conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve. 

State Street Corporation | 9 

The capital plan must include a description of all of our planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any capital qualifying instruments, any capital distributions, such as payments of dividends on, or repurchases of, our stock, and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could affect our consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under the Basel III rule, and serve as a source of strength to our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries under supervisory stress scenarios. The capital plan requirements mandate that we receive no objection to our plan from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. These requirements could require us to revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. In addition, changes in our strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, including capital raises or modifications to planned capital actions, such as repurchases of our stock, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the Federal Reserve for its non-objection if, among other reasons, we would not meet our regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. 

In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including the Parent Company and State Street Bank, if, in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s opinion, the payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary. Our common stock and other stock dividends, including the declaration, timing and amount thereof, remain subject to consideration and approval by our Board of Directors at the relevant times. 

In June 2019, we received the results of the Federal Reserve's review of our 2019 capital plan in connection with its 2019 annual CCAR process. The Federal Reserve did not object to our capital plan as part of the 2019 CCAR process. In connection with the capital plan, our Board approved a common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 (the 2019 Program). We repurchased a total of $1.0 billion of our common stock in the third and fourth quarters of 2019 under the 2019 Program. 

In June 2018, our Board approved a common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up 

&#160;

to $1.2 billion of our common stock from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019 (the 2018 Program). We repurchased a total of $600 million of our common stock in the first and second quarters of 2019 under the 2018 Program. 

Stock purchases may be made using various types of mechanisms, including open market purchases, accelerated share repurchases or transactions off market, and may be made under Rule 10b5-1 trading programs. The timing of stock purchases, types of transactions and number of shares purchased will depend on several factors, including market conditions and State Street&#8217;s capital positions, financial performance and investment opportunities. Our common stock purchase programs do not have specific price targets and may be suspended at any time. We may employ third-party broker/dealers to acquire shares on the open market in connection with our common stock purchase programs. 

The Federal Reserve, under the Dodd-Frank Act, requires us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests and to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic scenario. In November 2019, we provided summary results of our 2019 mid-cycle State Street-run stress tests on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our corporate website. We are also required to undergo an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The EGRRCPA modifies certain aspects of these stress-testing requirements, reducing the number of scenarios in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress test from three to two and modifying our obligation to perform company-run stress-tests from semi-annually to annually. The Federal Reserve adopted a final rule in October 2019 that, among other things, implemented this modification. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires State Street Bank to conduct an annual stress test. State Street Bank published a summary of its stress test results on June 21, 2019. 

The Federal Reserve is currently considering making further changes to its capital planning and stress testing requirements. 

On April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal to integrate its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements. The proposal, which would apply to certain bank holding companies, including us, would introduce a Stress Capital Buffer (SCB) and a Stress Leverage Buffer (SLB) and related changes to the capital planning and stress testing processes. Under the proposal, the requirements would apply only with respect to the standardized approach and tier 1 leverage regulatory capital requirements. 

In the standardized approach, the SCB would replace the existing capital conservation buffer. The 

State Street Corporation | 10 

standardized approach SCB would equal the greater of (i) the maximum decline in our CET1 capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario over the supervisory stress test measurement period, plus the sum of the ratios of the dollar amount of our planned common stock dividends to our projected RWA for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period; and (ii) 2.5%. Regulatory capital requirements under the standardized approach would include the SCB, as summarized above, as well as our G-SIB capital surcharge and any applicable countercyclical capital buffer. 

Like the SCB, the SLB would be calculated based on the results of our annual supervisory stress tests. The SLB would equal the maximum decline in our tier 1 leverage ratio under the severely adverse scenario, plus the sum of the ratios of the dollar amount of our planned common stock dividends to our projected leverage ratio denominator for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period. No floor would be established for the SLB, which would apply in addition to the current minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. 

The proposal would make related changes to capital planning and stress testing processes for bank holding companies subject to these requirements. In particular, the proposal would limit projected capital actions to planned common stock dividends in the fourth through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period and would assume that bank holding companies maintain a constant level of assets and RWA throughout the supervisory stress test projection period. 

If the proposal is adopted, limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers would be determined by the most stringent limitation, if any, as determined under the standardized approach or the tier 1 leverage ratio, inclusive of the proposed stress buffer requirements, or the advanced approaches or SLR or TLAC requirements, inclusive of applicable buffers. 

The proposed stress buffer requirements are not yet effective. However, we expect the Federal Reserve may finalize certain elements of the proposed requirements and re-propose other elements, which re-proposals will again be subject to public comment. 

The Volcker Rule 

We are subject to the Volcker Rule and implementing regulations. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited proprietary trading activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule regulations, subject to exemptions for market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging, underwriting and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also requires banking entities to either restructure or divest certain ownership interests in, and relationships with, covered 

&#160;

funds (as such terms are defined in the Volcker Rule regulations). 

The Volcker Rule regulations require banking entities to establish extensive programs designed to promote compliance with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. We have established a compliance program which we believe complies with the Volcker Rule regulations as currently in effect. Such compliance program restricts our ability in the future to service certain types of funds, in particular covered funds for which State Street Global Advisors acts as an advisor and certain types of trustee relationships. Consequently, Volcker Rule compliance entails both the cost of a compliance program and loss of certain revenue and future opportunities. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other federal financial regulatory agencies responsible for the Volcker Rule regulations adopted an interagency final rule that revised certain elements of those regulations. The changes focus on proprietary trading, including the metrics reporting requirements and certain requirements imposed in connection with permitted market making, underwriting and risk-mitigating hedging activities, including market-making in and underwriting of covered funds. These revisions became effective on January 1, 2020, with compliance required by January 1, 2021. We do not expect the revisions to have a material impact on us. We understand the agencies responsible for the Volcker Rule regulations intend to issue a separate proposal recommending changes focused on the covered funds provisions which generally prohibit any banking entity from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, establishes a systemic risk regime to which large bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as us, are subject. The Federal Reserve is required to tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies based on their size, complexity, risk profile and other factors. U.S. G-SIBs, such as us, are expected to remain subject to the most stringent requirements, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements and single-counterparty credit limits (SCCL). 

The FSOC can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for SIFIs, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and 

State Street Corporation | 11 

regulation, and, assisted by the Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us. 

Under the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential standards regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, we are required to comply with various liquidity-related risk management standards and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing. This liquidity buffer is in addition to other liquidity requirements, such as the LCR and, when implemented, the NSFR. The regulations also establish requirements and responsibilities for our risk committee and mandate risk management standards. 

On June 14, 2018, the Federal Reserve finalized rules that established SCCL for large banking organizations. U.S. G-SIBs, including us, are subject to a limit of 15% of tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any &#8220;major counterparty&#8221; (defined to include other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs and non-bank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve). In addition, we are subject to a limit of 25% of tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. The final SCCL rules became effective for us on January 1, 2020. 

The Federal Reserve has established a rule that imposes contractual requirements on certain &#8220;qualified financial contracts&#8221; to which U.S. G-SIBs, including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. Under the rule, certain qualified financial contracts generally must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against a U.S. G-SIB, or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB, are limited to the same extent as they would be under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations. In addition, certain qualified financial contracts may not, among other things, permit the exercise of any cross-default right against a U.S. G-SIB or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB based on an affiliate&#8217;s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings, subject to certain creditor protections. There is a phased-in compliance schedule based on counterparty type, and the first compliance date was January 1, 2019. 

The systemic-risk regime also provides that for U.S. G-SIBs deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution&#8217;s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk 

&#160;

of the grave threat. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. 

Recovery and Resolution Planning 

We are required to periodically submit a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, commonly referred to as a resolution plan or a living will, to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC under Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. Through resolution planning, we seek, in the event of our insolvency, to maintain State Street Bank&#8217;s role as a key infrastructure provider within the financial system, while minimizing risk to the financial system and maximizing value for the benefit of our stakeholders. We have and will continue to focus management attention and resources to meet regulatory expectations with respect to resolution planning. 

We submitted our updated 2019 165(d) resolution plan describing our preferred resolution strategy to the Federal Reserve and FDIC (the Agencies) before July 1, 2019, and our resolution strategy is materially consistent with our prior resolution strategy. The submitted 2019 resolution plan was reviewed by the Agencies, which did not identify any deficiencies in the plan, but did identify one shortcoming related to the implementation of governance mechanisms. The Agencies have requested we submit our remediation project plan to address this feedback by March 31, 2020. Our next resolution plan is due July 1, 2021. 

In the event of material financial distress or failure, our preferred resolution strategy is the SPOE Strategy. The SPOE Strategy provides that prior to the bankruptcy of the Parent Company and pursuant to a support agreement among the Parent Company, SSIF (a direct subsidiary of the Parent Company), our Beneficiary Entities (as defined below) and certain of our other entities, SSIF is obligated, up to its available resources, to recapitalize and/or provide liquidity to State Street Bank and the other entities benefiting from such capital and/or liquidity support (collectively with State Street Bank, &#8220;Beneficiary Entities&#8221;), in amounts designed to prevent the Beneficiary Entities from themselves entering into resolution proceedings. Following the recapitalization of, or provision of liquidity to the Beneficiary Entities, the Parent Company would enter into a bankruptcy proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Beneficiary Entities and our other subsidiaries would be transferred to a newly organized holding company held by a reorganization trust for the benefit of the Parent Company&#8217;s claimants. 

Under the support agreement, the Parent Company pre-funded SSIF by contributing certain of its assets (primarily its liquid assets, cash deposits, investments in intercompany debt, investments in 

State Street Corporation | 12 

marketable securities and other cash and non-cash equivalent investments) to SSIF at the time it entered into the support agreement and will continue to contribute such assets, to the extent available, on an ongoing basis. In consideration for these contributions, SSIF has agreed in the support agreement to provide capital and liquidity support to the Parent Company and all of the Beneficiary Entities in accordance with the Parent Company&#8217;s capital and liquidity policies. Under the support agreement, the Parent Company is only permitted to retain cash needed to meet its upcoming obligations and to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding. SSIF has provided the Parent Company with a committed credit line and issued (and may issue) one or more promissory notes to the Parent Company (the "Parent Company Funding Notes") that together are intended to allow the Parent Company to continue to meet its obligations throughout the period prior to the occurrence of a "Recapitalization Event" (as defined below). The support agreement does not obligate SSIF to maintain any specific level of resources and SSIF may not have sufficient resources to implement the SPOE Strategy. 

In the event a Recapitalization Event occurs, the obligations outstanding under the Parent Company Funding Notes would automatically convert into or be exchanged for capital contributed to SSIF. The obligations of the Parent Company and SSIF under the support agreement are secured through a security agreement that grants a lien on the assets that the Parent Company and SSIF would use to fulfill their obligations under the support agreement to the Beneficiary Entities. SSIF is a distinct legal entity separate from the Parent Company and the Parent Company&#8217;s other affiliates. 

In accordance with our policies, we are required to monitor, on an ongoing basis, the capital and liquidity needs of State Street Bank and our other Beneficiary Entities. To support this process, we have established a trigger framework that identifies key actions that would need to be taken or decisions that would need to be made if certain events tied to our financial condition occur. In the event that we experience material financial distress, the support agreement requires us to model and calculate certain capital and liquidity triggers on a regular basis to determine whether or not the Parent Company should commence preparations for a bankruptcy filing and whether or not a Recapitalization Event has occurred. 

Upon the occurrence of a Recapitalization Event: (1) SSIF would not be authorized to provide any further liquidity to the Parent Company; (2) the Parent Company would be required to contribute to SSIF any remaining assets it is required to contribute to SSIF under the support agreement (which specifically exclude amounts designated to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding); (3) SSIF would be required to provide capital and 

&#160;

liquidity support to the Beneficiary Entities to support such entities&#8217; continued operation to the extent of its available resources and consistent with the support agreement; and (4) the Parent Company would be expected to commence Chapter 11 proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. No person or entity, other than a party to the support agreement, should rely on any of our affiliates being or remaining a Beneficiary Entity or receiving capital or liquidity support pursuant to the support agreement, including in evaluating any of our entities from a creditor's perspective or determining whether to enter into a contractual relationship with any of our entities. 

A &#8220;Recapitalization Event&#8221; is defined under the support agreement as the earlier occurrence of: (1) one or more capital and liquidity thresholds being breached or (2) the authorization by the Parent Company's Board of Directors for the Parent Company to commence bankruptcy proceedings. The thresholds are set at levels intended to provide for the availability of sufficient capital and liquidity to enable an orderly resolution without extraordinary government support. The SPOE Strategy and the obligations under the support agreement may result in the recapitalization of State Street Bank and the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the Parent Company at an earlier stage of financial stress than might otherwise occur without such mechanisms in place. An expected effect of the SPOE Strategy and applicable TLAC regulatory requirements is that our losses will be imposed on the Parent Company shareholders and the holders of long-term debt and other forms of TLAC securities currently outstanding or issued in the future by the Parent Company, as well as on any other Parent Company creditors, before any of our losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of the Parent Company's operating subsidiaries or any of their depositors or creditors, or before U.S. taxpayers are put at risk. 

There can be no assurance that credit rating agencies will not downgrade, place on negative watch or change their outlook on our debt credit ratings in response to our resolution plan or the support agreement, either generally or with respect to specific debt securities. Any such downgrade, placement on negative watch or change in outlook could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in restrictive covenants in future debt agreements and could also adversely impact the trading prices, or the liquidity, of our outstanding debt securities. 

State Street Bank is also required to submit periodically to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure, referred to as an insured depository institution (IDI) plan. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in which it invited comment on potential revisions to its IDI plan requirements. Until the FDIC&#8217;s revisions to its IDI plan 

State Street Corporation | 13 

requirements are finalized, no IDI plans will be required to be filed. 

Additionally, we are required to submit a recovery plan for State Street to the Federal Reserve. This plan includes detailed governance triggers and contingency actions that can be implemented in a timely manner in the event of extreme financial distress in those entities. 

Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as us, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to the orderly liquidation authority. For the FDIC to be appointed as our receiver, two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board must recommend appointment, and the U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the U.S. President, must then make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding incrementally, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as the receiver of State Street Bank, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve us, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution. 

In 2013, the FDIC released its proposed SPOE strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC&#8217;s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. 

Derivatives 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposed a comprehensive regulatory structure on the OTC derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record- 

&#160;

keeping. Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a major swap participant, a swap dealer or a securities-based swap dealer. The CFTC , the SEC, and other U.S. regulators have largely implemented key provisions of Title VII, although certain final regulations have only been in place a short period of time and others have not been finalized. Through this rulemaking process, these regulators collectively have adopted or proposed, among other things, regulations relating to reporting and record-keeping obligations, margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration and the central clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain OTC derivatives. The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities. The CFTC, along with other regulators, including the Federal Reserve, have also issued rules with respect to margin requirements for uncleared derivatives transactions. 

State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer. As a provisionally registered swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators. The CFTC has granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation. Under this limited-purpose designation, interest rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank&#8217;s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a number of conditions. For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap dealer regulations. 

Subsidiaries 

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. 

Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch. Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the OCC, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate. 

State Street Corporation | 14 

We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our subsidiaries, on the other. Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, are limited in the aggregate for all affiliates to 20% of State Street Bank's capital and surplus, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements. Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized. In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits similar transactions between the Parent Company or any of its affiliates and covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor and other covered funds organized and offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the Volcker Rule regulations. 

Federal law also requires that certain transactions by a bank with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies. Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. 

State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. Federal law provides for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC. 

Our subsidiaries, State Street Global Advisors FM and State Street Global Advisors Ltd. , act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. State Street Global Advisors FM , incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading adviser and pool operator. State Street Global Advisors Ltd. , incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. State Street Global Advisors Ltd. is also 

&#160;

authorized and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (U.K. FCA) and is an investment firm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive. Our subsidiary, State Street Global Advisors Asia Limited , a Hong Kong incorporated company, is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC and additionally is licensed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong to perform a variety of activities, including asset management. State Street Global Advisors Asia Limited also holds permits as a qualified foreign institutional Investor (QFII) and a renminbi qualified foreign institutional investor (RQFII), approved by the Securities Regulatory Commission in the People&#8217;s Republic of China, and in Korea is registered with the Financial Services Commission as a cross-border investment advisory company and a cross-border discretionary investment management company. In addition, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, which is a subsidiary of State Street Bank and a Massachusetts chartered trust company subject to the supervision of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities. 

Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), and is regulated by the U.S. DOL. 

We have three subsidiaries that operate as a U.S. broker/dealer and are registered as such with the SEC, are subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC's net capital rule) and are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. State Street Global Advisors Funds Distributors, LLC operates as a limited purpose broker/dealer that provides distributing and related marketing activities for U.S. mutual funds and ETFs associated with State Street Global Advisors. State Street Global Advisors Funds Distributors, LLC also may privately offer certain State Street Global Advisors advised funds. State Street Global Markets, LLC is a U.S. broker/dealer that provides agency execution services. We also acquired Charles River Brokerage, LLC, a U.S. broker/dealer, as part of our acquisition of CRD. In addition, we have a subsidiary, SwapEX, LLC, registered with the CFTC in the U.S. as a swap execution facility. 

State Street Corporation | 15 

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, among others, the U.K. FCA and the United Kingdom Prudential Regulation Authority regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Central Bank of Ireland regulates our activities in Ireland; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority regulates our activities in Germany; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier regulates our activities in Luxembourg; our German banking group is also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank under the ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism; the Securities and Futures Commission regulates our asset management activities in Hong Kong; the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission regulate our activities in Australia; and the Financial Services Agency and the Bank of Japan regulate our activities in Japan. We have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations. However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity, costs and risks related to regulation. 

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank&#8217;s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined in the relevant banking regulations, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. 

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, neither of which is subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries. 

Additionally, Massachusetts has its own bank holding company statute, under which we, among other things, may be required to obtain prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for an acquisition of more than 5% of any additional bank's voting shares, or for other forms of bank acquisitions. 

&#160;

Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Transparency 

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and related regulations, which contain AML and financial transparency provisions and which require implementation of an AML compliance program, including processes for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to promote compliance with applicable AML laws and regulations. AML laws and regulations applicable to our operations may be more stringent than similar requirements applicable to our non-regulated competitors or financial institutions principally operating in other jurisdictions. Compliance with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and any failure by us to comply with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals, restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation. 

In 2015, we entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and the Massachusetts Division of Banks relating to deficiencies identified in our compliance programs with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, AML regulations and U.S. economic sanctions regulations promulgated by Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). As part of this agreement, we have been required to, among other things, implement improvements to our compliance programs. If we fail to comply with the terms of the written agreement, we may become subject to fines and other regulatory sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on us. 

Deposit Insurance 

The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) is funded by assessments on FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. For larger institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base. 

The FDIC is required to determine whether and to what extent adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for &#8220;custody banks" that satisfy specified institutional eligibility criteria. The FDIC has concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks. 

State Street Corporation | 16 

This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks. State Street Bank qualifies as a custody bank for this purpose. The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including minimum capital ratios. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as our Parent Company, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary. In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of a capital restoration plan if one of our banking subsidiaries were undercapitalized. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, a bank holding company such as our Parent Company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. This requirement was added to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Dodd-Frank Act. This means that we have a statutory obligation to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment. 

Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository Institution 

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository institution&#8217;s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution&#8217;s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution&#8217;s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party. Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. branches and offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, such persons 

&#160;

would be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. 

Cyber Risk Management 

In October 2016, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including us and our banking subsidiaries. The proposed standards would expand existing cyber-security regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. Although the FDIC and OCC in 2019 each withdrew the advance notice of proposed rulemaking, the Federal Reserve has not withdrawn the advance notice and may still propose such a rule. 

Further discussion of cyber-security risk management is provided in "Information Technology Risk Management" included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K . 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES 

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those shareholders. We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the ECB . 

STATIS TICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 

The following information included under Items 6, 7 and 8 in this Form 10-K , is incorporated by reference herein: 

&#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - presents consolidated 

State Street Corporation | 17 

average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest income and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 

&#8220;Investment Securities&#8221; section included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 3 , &#8220;Investment Securities,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category). 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; section included in our Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4 , &#8220;Loans,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status and distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates. 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; and &#8220;Cross-Border Outstandings&#8221; sections of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) - disclose information regarding our cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations. 

&#8220;Credit Risk Management&#8221; section included in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4 , &#8220;Loans,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management&#8217;s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information. 

Note 8 , &#8220;Short-Term Borrowings,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding our short-term borrowings. 

