 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (2019 Form 10-K) describes market, credit, geopolitical and business operations risk factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition due to, among other things, &#8220;widespread health emergencies or pandemics.&#8221; On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. As conditions and circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic have evolved subsequent to our 2019 Form 10-K filing, the following supplements the risk factors described in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

Coronavirus Disease 2019 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant global economic downturn which has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, the Corporation&#8217;s business and results of operations, and the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. and/or global economy and the Corporation&#8217;s business, results of operations and financial condition remain uncertain. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures attempting to contain the spread and impact of COVID-19, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and limitations on business activity, including closures. These measures are, among other things, severely restricting global economic activity, which is disrupting global supply chains, lowering asset valuations, significantly increasing unemployment and underemployment levels, decreasing liquidity in markets for certain securities and causing significant volatility and disruptions in the financial, energy and commodity markets. These measures have also negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, businesses, market participants, our counterparties and clients, and the U.S. and/or global economy for a prolonged period of time. 

Should current economic conditions persist or continue to deteriorate, we expect that this macroeconomic environment will have a continued adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which could include, but not be limited to: decreased demand for our products and services; protracted periods of lower interest rates; lower asset management fees; lower sales and trading revenue due to decreased market liquidity resulting from heightened volatility; increased noninterest expenses, including operational losses, and increased credit losses due to deterioration in the financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers, including declining asset and collateral values, which may continue to increase our provision for credit losses and net charge-offs. Our provision for credit losses and net charge-offs could also be impacted by continued volatility in the energy and commodity markets. Additionally, our liquidity and/or regulatory capital could be adversely impacted by customers&#8217; withdrawal of deposits, volatility and disruptions in the capital and 

&#160;

credit markets, volatility in foreign exchange rates and continued customer draws on lines of credit and potential downgrades to our credit ratings. If we become unable to successfully operate our business from remote locations including, for example, failure of our internal or external information technology infrastructure, increased rates of employee illness, or governmental restrictions placed on our employees or operations, this could also have an adverse effect on our business continuity status and result in disruption to our business. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the U.S. and/or global economy and/or adversely affects our business, results of operations or financial condition, it may also have the effect of increasing the likelihood and/or magnitude of other risks described in the section captioned &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our 2019 Form 10-K or risks described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

In response to the economic and market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and regulatory authorities, including central banks, have acted to provide fiscal and monetary stimuli to support the global economy. In the U.S., the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) has, among other things: lowered the federal funds rate and the interest rate on the Federal Reserve&#8217;s discount window; implemented programs to promote liquidity in certain securities markets, including money markets, repurchase agreements, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, and agency mortgage-backed securities; clarified supervisory expectations regarding loan modifications due to COVID-19 related non-payment; announced a program for lending directly to U.S. businesses; and clarified expectations for certain bank regulations related to counterparty credit risk and the current expected credit loss accounting standard. In addition, the President has signed into law four economic stimulus packages, including the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, the $2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, and the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act. Similar actions have been taken or enacted by governments and central banks outside the U.S. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will stimulate the global economy or avert continued recessionary conditions in markets or economies in which we conduct operations. Our participation in and execution of these and other measures taken by governments and regulatory authorities could result in reputational harm and has resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions, or regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties, and fines adverse to the Corporation. 

We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and related risks as they evolve globally. The magnitude and duration of the current outbreak of COVID-19, the likelihood of further outbreaks of COVID-19, future actions taken by governmental authorities and/or other third parties in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and its future direct and indirect effects on the global economy and our business and results of operation are highly uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic may cause prolonged global or national recessionary economic conditions or longer lasting effects on economic conditions than currently exist, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America &#160; 96 

