 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (2019 Form 10-K) describes market, credit, geopolitical and business operations risk factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition due to, among other things, &#8220;widespread health emergencies or pandemics.&#8221; On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. As conditions and circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic evolved subsequent to our 2019 Form 10-K filing, the Corporation disclosed a risk factor in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2020 captioned &#8220;Coronavirus Disease 2019&#8221; to supplement the risk factors described in its 2019 Form 10-K. The following supplements the risk factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2020. 

Coronavirus Disease 2019 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant global economic downturn that has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, the Corporation&#8217;s businesses and results of operations, and the duration and future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. and/or global economy and the Corporation&#8217;s businesses, results of operations and financial condition remain uncertain. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures intended to contain the spread and impact of COVID-19, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and limitations on business activity, including closures. These measures have severely restricted economic activity, reduced economic output and resulted in a deterioration in economic conditions, globally and in the U.S. This has resulted in, among other things, high rates of unemployment and underemployment and caused volatility and disruptions in consumer spending and the global financial markets, including the energy and commodity markets. Although some of these restrictive measures have been eased in certain areas, many of the restrictive measures remain in place or have been reinstated, and in some cases additional restrictive measures are being or may need to be implemented. Businesses, market participants, our counterparties and clients, and the U.S. and global economy have been negatively impacted and are likely to be so for an extended period of time, as there remains significant uncertainty about the timing and strength of an economic recovery. 

The negative economic conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our financial results during the second quarter in various respects, including an increase in our provision for credit losses and our noninterest expenses. These negative economic conditions are expected to have a continued adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations, which could include, but not be limited to: decreased demand for and use of our products and services; protracted periods of historically 

&#160;

low interest rates; lower fees, including asset management fees; lower sales and trading revenue due to decreased market liquidity resulting from heightened volatility; increased noninterest expenses, including operational losses, and increased credit losses due to our customers' and clients' ability to fulfill contractual obligations and deterioration in the financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers, which may continue to increase our provision for credit losses and net charge-offs. Our provision for credit losses and net charge-offs may also continue to be impacted by volatility in the energy and commodity markets. Additionally, our liquidity and/or regulatory capital could be adversely impacted by customers&#8217; withdrawal of deposits, volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, volatility in foreign exchange rates and customer draws on lines of credit. Continued adverse macroeconomic conditions caused by COVID-19 could also result in potential downgrades to our credit ratings, negative impacts to regulatory capital and liquidity and further capital preservation measures, which could limit the capital we return to shareholders. 

If we become unable to successfully operate our business from remote locations including, for example, because of an internal or external failure of our information technology infrastructure, we experience increased rates of employee illness or unavailability, or governmental restrictions are placed on our employees or operations, this could also have an adverse effect on our business continuity status and result in disruption to our businesses. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the U.S. and/or global economy and/or adversely affects our businesses, results of operations or financial condition, it may also have the effect of increasing the likelihood and/or magnitude of other risks described in the section captioned &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our 2019 Form 10-K or risks described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

In response to the economic and market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and regulatory authorities, including central banks, have acted and may take further action to provide fiscal and monetary stimuli to support the global economy. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will stimulate the global economy or avert continued recessionary conditions in markets or economies in which we conduct operations. Our participation in and execution of measures taken by governments and regulatory authorities could result in reputational harm and government actions and proceedings, and has resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties, and fines adverse to the Corporation. 

We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and related risks as they evolve globally and in the U.S. The magnitude and duration of the current outbreak of COVID-19, the likelihood of further outbreaks of COVID-19, future actions taken by governmental authorities and/or other third parties in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and its future direct and indirect effects on the global economy and our businesses, results of operation and financial condition are highly uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic may cause prolonged global or national recessionary economic conditions or longer lasting effects on economic conditions than currently exist, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America &#160; 104 

