 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the risks below and other information presented in this Report, you should consider the risks described in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K. 

Additional Risks Related to our Business 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting us and creates significant risks and uncertainties for our business, and the ultimate impact of the pandemic on us will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected the global and U.S. economies, increased unemployment levels, disrupted supply chains and businesses in many industries, lowered equity market valuations, decreased liquidity in fixed income markets, and created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets. This has resulted, and could continue to result, in higher and more volatile provisions for credit losses, and is also expected to result in increased charge offs, particularly as more customers experience credit deterioration and as customers need to draw on their committed credit lines to help finance their businesses and activities. The pandemic&#8217;s negative economic impact and its effect on customer needs and behaviors could adversely affect our liquidity and also continue to adversely affect our capital profile. Moreover, governmental actions in response to the pandemic are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment, which has, and is likely to continue to, reduce our net interest margin. The effects of the pandemic have also resulted in lower service charges and fees, card fees, capital markets fees, and foreign exchange and interest rate products revenue, which have, and are likely to continue to, negatively affect our noninterest income. 

In addition, our reliance on work-from-home capabilities and the potential inability to maintain critical staff in our operational facilities present risks associated with our local infrastructure, restrictive stay-at-home orders across jurisdictions, illness, quarantines and the sustainability of a work-from-home environment, as well as heightened cybersecurity, information security and operational risks. Many of our service providers have been, and may further be, affected by similar factors that increase their risks of business disruptions or that may otherwise affect their ability to perform under the terms of any agreements with us or provide essential services. Any disruption to our ability to deliver financial products or services to, or interact with, our clients and customers could result in losses or increased operational costs, regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, or harm to our reputation. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the pandemic on market and economic conditions and the actions of governmental authorities in response to those conditions. 

Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 80 

The federal banking regulators have issued interagency guidance to clarify supervisory expectations regarding loan modifications due to COVID-19-related non-payment and the regulatory capital transition for the current expected credit loss accounting standard. Further, the Federal Reserve has announced a program for lending directly to U.S. businesses. In addition, the President Trump has signed into law three economic stimulus packages, including the $2 trillion CARES Act, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, and the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020. In response to the pandemic, we have (i) assisted our retail and small business customers through loan forbearances and modifications, (ii) extended loans under the Small Business Administration&#8217;s Paycheck Protection Program, and (iii) committed funding for community support with a particular emphasis on small businesses and non-profit partners. These government programs are complex and our participation may lead to governmental and regulatory scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. On April 17, 2020, we announced that we would temporarily suspend our stock repurchase program through December 31, 2020 to support the efforts of the Federal Reserve and other banks to moderate the impact of the pandemic by making additional capital and liquidity available to our customers, including corporates, small businesses and individuals. The pandemic may cause us to further limit capital distributions. 

The extent to which the pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our liquidity and regulatory capital ratios, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our work-from-home arrangements and staffing levels in operational facilities, actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic and the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on us, our clients and customers, our service providers and other market participants. To the extent the pandemic adversely affects us, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

