 

Legal Proceedings 

The following developments have occurred since previously reporting certain matters in the Firm&#8217;s 2021 Form 10-K. See also the disclosures set forth under &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in the 2021 Form 10-K. 

Residential Mortgage Related Matters 

On March 29, 2022, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee, announced that the certificateholders participating in the consent solicitation had approved the settlement agreement in Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust 2007-NC4 v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. The Trustee unconditionally accepted the financial terms of that settlement on April 18, 2022, which caused the settlement to become final and binding on all parties. On April 27, 2022, the parties filed a stipulation of voluntary discontinuance, dismissing the action with prejudice. 

On April 27, 2022, the parties&#8217; agreement to settle Financial Guaranty Insurance Company v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al. became final and binding after Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust 2007-NC4 v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. was voluntarily dismissed. 

Block Trading Matter 

In addition to the investigations noted in the Firm&#8217;s 2021 Form 10-K, the Firm faces potential civil liability arising from claims that have been or may be asserted by block transaction participants or others who contend they were harmed or 

disadvantaged including, among other things, as a result of a share price decline allegedly caused by the activities of the Firm and/or its employees. 

Record Keeping Matter 

The Firm has been responding to requests for information from regulators concerning its compliance with record-keeping requirements in connection with business communications on messaging platforms that have not been approved by the Firm, and is engaging in efforts to resolve such matters. 

Risk Factors 

