 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a financial services organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in our transactions and operations and are present in the business decisions we make. We encounter risk as part of the normal course of our business, and we design risk management processes to help manage these risks. Our success is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities. We categorize risk into the following areas: 

&#8226; Strategic Risk: The risk to earnings or capital arising from business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. 

&#8226; Operational Risk: The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. 

&#8226; Credit Risk: The risk a borrower will fail to perform on an obligation. 

&#8226; Market Risk: The risk to BancShares&#8217; financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity prices. 

&#8226; Liquidity Risk: The risk that BancShares will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to (i) liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding (referred to as &#8220;Funding Liquidity Risk&#8221;), or (ii) unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions (&#8220;Market Liquidity Risk&#8221;). 

&#8226; Capital Adequacy Risk: The risk that capital levels are inadequate to preserve the safety and soundness of BancShares, support ongoing business operations and strategies and provide support against unexpected or sudden changes in the business/economic environment. 

&#8226; Compliance Risk: The risk of loss or reputational harm resulting from regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties or losses due to the failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations or other supervisory requirements applicable to a financial institution. 

&#8226; Financial Reporting Risk: The risk that financial information is reported incorrectly, including incorrect or incomplete financial information, errors and omissions, or improper application of accounting standards. 

The risks and uncertainties management believes are material are described below. The risks listed are not the only risks BancShares faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and/or the results of our operations or our business. If such risks and uncertainties were to materialize or the likelihoods of the risks were to increase, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. 

Strategic Risks 

We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed, pending or any potential future acquisitions. 

We plan to continue to grow our business organically. However, we have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities that we believe support our business strategies and may enhance our profitability. We must generally satisfy a number of material conditions prior to consummating any acquisition including, in many cases, federal and state regulatory approval. We may fail to complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability to obtain required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all. 

Acquisitions of financial institutions, assets of financial institutions, or other operating entities involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies or assets may have unknown or contingent liabilities, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems that require write downs or write-offs, or difficulty retaining key employees and customers. Additionally, acquired companies may have product lines, regulatory requirements, or operational challenges with which we are not familiar, or for which we lack management experience to expertise. These, among other issues, could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

We may not be able to realize projected cost savings, synergies or other benefits associated with any such acquisition. Failure to efficiently integrate any acquired entities or assets into our existing operations could significantly increase our operating costs and have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, consummating, or integrating any potential acquisitions. 

Specifically, on October 15, 2020, BancShares and CIT, entered into the Merger Agreement by and among BancShares, FCB, Merger Sub, and CIT, the parent company of CIT Bank. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into CIT, with CIT as the surviving entity, and as soon as reasonably practicable following the effective time of the First-Step Merger, CIT will merge with and into FCB, with FCB as the surviving entity. The Merger Agreement further provides that immediately following the consummation of the Mergers, CIT Bank will merge with and into FCB, with FCB as the surviving bank. On February 9, 2021, BancShares and CIT each held a special meeting of shareholders where they received the necessary shareholder approvals for the consummation of the Transaction from their respective shareholders. Subject to certain customary closing conditions, the Transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2021, and certain new risk factors have been identified as a result. These risks and the other risks associated with the Transaction have been more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the registration statement on Form S-4 filed with the SEC on December 23, 2020 in connection with the Transaction. 

The consummation of the Transaction is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including regulatory approvals, that may be outside of our or CIT's control and that we and CIT may be unable to satisfy or obtain or which may delay the consummation of the Transaction or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the Transaction or cause the parties to abandon the Transaction. 

Consummation of the Transaction is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, some of which are beyond our and CIT's control, including, among others: 

&#8226; authorization for listing on Nasdaq of the shares of our capital stock to be issued in the First-Step Merger, subject to official notice of issuance; 

&#8226; the receipt of required domestic and foreign regulatory approvals, including, among others, the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks; and 

&#8226; the absence of any order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint preventing the completion of the Mergers or making the completion of the Transaction illegal. 

Each party's obligation to complete the Transaction is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including, among others: 

&#8226; subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party; 

&#8226; performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement; and 

&#8226; receipt by each party of an opinion from its counsel to the effect that the Mergers will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

These conditions to the closing of the Transaction may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the Transaction may be delayed substantially or may not be completed. In addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time, or we or CIT may elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances. 

As a condition to granting required regulatory approvals, governmental entities may impose conditions, limitations or costs, require divestitures or place restrictions on our conduct after the closing of the Transaction. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could, among other things, have the effect of delaying completion of the Transaction or of imposing additional costs or limitations on us following the Transaction, any of which may have an adverse effect on us following the Transaction. 

We and CIT are subject to lawsuits challenging the Transaction, and adverse rulings in these lawsuits may delay or prevent the Transaction from being completed or require us or CIT to incur significant costs to defend or settle these lawsuits. Any delay in completing the Transaction could cause us not to realize, or to be delayed in realizing, some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the Transaction is successfully completed within its expected time frame. We have not yet incurred significant expense related to litigation, but may as litigation proceeds. 

We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Transaction, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating with CIT. 

We and CIT have operated and, until the completion of the Transaction, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the Transaction, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate CIT&#8217;s operations in a manner that results in various benefits and that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. The process of integrating operations could result in a loss of key personnel or cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses. Inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies could adversely affect the combined company. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Transaction and the integration of CIT's operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company. 

If we experience difficulties in the integration process, including those listed above, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transaction in a timely manner or at all. 

While the Transaction is pending, we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business and operations. 

Uncertainty about the effect of the Transaction on employees, customers and other persons with whom we or CIT have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on our business, operations and stock price. Our existing customers or existing customers of CIT could decide to no longer do business with us, CIT or the combined company, reducing the anticipated benefits of the Transaction. We and CIT are also subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our respective businesses while the Transaction is pending. As a result, certain other projects may be delayed or abandoned, and business decisions could be deferred. Employee retention at BancShares and CIT may be challenging before or after completion of the Transaction, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and these retention challenges may require us to incur additional expenses in order to retain or replace key employees. If key officers or employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us, CIT or the combined company, the benefits of the Transaction could be materially diminished and we could encounter difficulties in replacing them and successfully managing new lines of business with which we do not have management experience or expertise. 

We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the Transaction and the integration with CIT. 

We and CIT will incur substantial expenses in connection with the Transaction and integration. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the 

elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale. The amount and timing of any charges to earnings as a result of Transaction or integration expenses are uncertain at present. 

Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the Transaction . 

Following the Transaction, the size and geographic and operational scope of our business will increase significantly beyond its current size and scope. The Transaction will more than double our asset size and will increase the breadth and complexity of our business with the addition of new business lines in which we have not previously engaged, and new geographic areas in which we currently have no operations and with which we lack familiarity. Our future success depends, in part, upon the ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in this regard or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the Transaction. 

We encounter significant competition that may reduce our market share and profitability. 

We compete with other banks and specialized financial services providers in our market areas. Our primary competitors include local, regional and national banks; credit unions; commercial finance companies; various wealth management providers; independent and captive insurance agencies; mortgage companies; and non-bank providers of financial services. Some of our larger competitors, including certain banks with a significant presence in our market areas, have the capacity to offer products and services we do not offer. Some of our non-bank competitors operate in less stringent regulatory environments, and certain competitors are not subject to federal and/or state income taxes. The fierce competitive pressures that we face adversely affect pricing for many of our products and services. 

Certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt a shareholder might consider to be in their best interests. 

Certain provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management. The provisions could also delay or make more difficult a tender offer, merger or proxy contest a shareholder might consider to be in their best interests. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation and/or Bylaws: 

&#8226; allow the Board to issue and set the terms of preferred shares without further shareholder approval; 

&#8226; limit who can call a special meeting of shareholders; and 

&#8226; establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board and proposals of other business to be considered at annual meetings of shareholders. 

These provisions, as well as provisions of the BHCA and other relevant statutes and regulations that require advance notice and/or applications for regulatory approval of changes in control of banks and bank holding companies, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price, adversely affecting its market price. Additionally, the fact that the Holding family holds or controls shares representing a majority of the voting power of our common stock may discourage potential takeover attempts and/or bids for our common stock at a premium over market price. 

Our Bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees or agents. 

Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, other employees or shareholder to us or our shareholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or as to which the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. These choice of forum provisions do not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for any actions brought under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. Accordingly, our choice of forum provisions will not relieve us of our duties to comply with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with these laws, rules and regulations. 

These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder&#8217;s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or agents, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees or agents. 

If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. 

We rely on dividends from FCB. 

As a financial holding company, we are a separate legal entity from FCB. We derive most of our revenue and cash flow from dividends paid by FCB. These dividends are the primary source from which we pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt obligations. State and federal laws impose restrictions on the dividends that FCB may pay to us. In the event FCB is unable to pay dividends to us for an extended period of time, we may not be able to service our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock, and the inability to receive dividends from FCB could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our financial performance depends upon our ability to attract and retain clients for our products and services, which may be adversely impacted by weakened consumer and/or business confidence, and by any inability on our part to predict and satisfy customers&#8217; needs and demands. 

Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with the loss of client confidence and demand. A fragile or weakening economy, or ambiguity surrounding the economic future, may lessen the demand for our products and services. Our performance may also be negatively impacted if we fail to attract and retain customers because we are not able to successfully anticipate, develop and market products and services that satisfy market demands. Such events could impact our performance through fewer loans, reduced fee income and fewer deposits, each of which could result in reduced net income. The pandemic caused by a novel strain of coronavirus (&#8220;COVID-19&#8221;), while disruptive to our customers and the economy, has not led to a significant decline in our products and services to date, but it could if its impact on us and our customers continues or increases in the future. 

New technologies, and our ability to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services to our customers present competitive risks. 

The rapid growth of new digital technologies, including internet services, smart phones and other mobile devices, requires us to continuously evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt and deliver our products and services in a manner responsive to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. New technologies by banks and non-bank service providers may create risks if our products and services are no longer competitive with then-current standards, and could negatively affect our ability to attract or maintain a loyal customer base. These risks may affect our ability to grow and could reduce our revenue streams from certain products and services, while increasing expenses associated with developing more competitive solutions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 

Operational Risks 

We face significant operational risks in our businesses. 

Safely conducting and growing our business requires that we create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways, including employee fraud, customer fraud and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees and internal and third party automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or system-tampering will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain appropriate operational infrastructure and oversight can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. We have implemented internal controls that are designed to safeguard and maintain our operational and organizational infrastructure and information. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. 

The continued economic impacts of a COVID-19 outbreak could affect BancShares' business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Beginning in early 2020, COVID-19 spread across most of the world, including the United States ( the &#8220;U.S.&#8221;). It has caused severe disruptions to the U.S. economy, regional quarantines, business shutdowns, high unemployment, disruptions to supply chains, and overall economic instability that has adversely impacted the operations, activities and business of BancShares and its customers. Effects have generally been felt across all industries, including financial services. 

In response to the national public health crisis, Federal, State and Local governments continue to impose an array of restrictions on the way all businesses conduct their operations and on our customers, business partners, vendors and employees. These restrictions, along with other economic factors including inflation risks, oil price volatility, and changes in interest rates have and may continue to destabilize financial markets and negatively impact our customers&#8217; business activities and operations, making it difficult for them to satisfy existing debt obligations. They also have led to elevated unemployment and slower consumer spending which in turn will increase our collection risk as deteriorating economic conditions correlate with lower credit quality metrics and higher customer defaults on loans. Economic pressures and uncertainty have and may continue to change consumer and business behaviors, which, in the short and long term, could affect borrowers&#8217; creditworthiness and the demand for loans and other products and services we offer. BancShares is actively monitoring the loan portfolio to identify changes in credit risk within a specific geography, loan class, or within a particular industry concentration. Therefore, provision expense could increase as we incorporate these changes into our estimate on the allowance for credit losses. 

Additionally, our operations have experienced disruptions as we operate in a remote working environment for most corporate employees and we have adjusted branch operations and corporate processes. With continued uncertainty around outbreak severity within impacted areas, there may be increased absenteeism, and lost productivity as a result of the remote workforce. We may see an increased incidence of cybersecurity threats or fraud as cyber-criminals look to profit from the disruption and potential strain on information technology and the fear of the general public. There may be disruption in critical third party services as they operate in the current environment. BancShares has a comprehensive business continuity and data security plan in place along with third party risk management, but may not be able to mitigate all of the issues identified above. 

Market volatility and general uncertainty in the capital markets may also impact our business. Our access to capital and liquidity could be limited by market disruptions which could be exacerbated by delays in customer payments or significant withdrawals from customer deposit accounts. In addition, the fair value of our assets and liabilities will be impacted by the changing market environment. This could also increase liquidity and capital adequacy risks, as well as long-lived asset impairment risk. 

As the government and its regulatory bodies respond to the crisis, it increases the burden on our associates to quickly respond to changing regulatory guidance. This could increase the risk of noncompliance. 

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten specific risk factors and could impact substantially all risk factors described herein. Those effects will adversely affect our business operations and results at least until the outbreak has subsided, and the negative effects on the economy, our customers and our business and results likely will continue to be felt for some time afterwards. The full extent of the impact will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain including the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, governmental actions to contain the virus, and the long term economic impact, both globally, as well as in our banking markets, which includes a potential recession. 

A cyber attack, information or security breach, or a technology failure of ours or of a third party could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, manage our exposure to risk, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase our costs to maintain and update our operational and security systems and infrastructure, and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm. 

Our businesses are highly dependent on the security and efficacy of our infrastructure, computer and data management systems, as well as those of third parties with whom we interact or on whom we rely. Our businesses rely on the secure processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer and data management systems and networks, and in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties. In addition, to access our network, products and services, our customers and other third parties may use personal mobile devices or computing devices that are outside of our network environment and are subject to their own cybersecurity risks. 

We, our customers, regulators and other third parties have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber attacks. These cyber attacks include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, phishing attacks, denial of service or information or other security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of ours, our employees, our customers or of third parties, damages to systems, or other material disruption to our or our customers&#8217; or other third parties&#8217; network access or business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents. Despite efforts to protect the integrity of our systems and implement controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, we may not be able to anticipate all security breaches, nor may we be able to implement guaranteed preventive measures against such security breaches. 

Cybersecurity risks for banking organizations have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, and the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions. For example, cybersecurity risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. In addition, cybersecurity risks have significantly increased in recent years in part due to the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime groups, hackers, terrorist organizations, hostile foreign governments, disgruntled employees or vendors, activists and other external parties, including those involved in corporate espionage. Even the most advanced internal control environment may be vulnerable to compromise. Additionally, the existence of cyber attacks or security breaches at third parties with access to our data, such as vendors, may not be disclosed to us in a timely manner. 

Although to date we have not experienced any material losses or other material consequences relating to technology failure, cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses or other consequences in the future. Risks are also heightened as a result of the increased remote workforce in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority. 

We also face indirect technology, cybersecurity and operational risks relating to the customers, clients and other third parties with whom we do business or upon whom we rely to facilitate or enable our business activities, including financial counterparties; financial intermediaries such as clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses; vendors; regulators; providers of critical infrastructure such as internet access and electrical power. As a result of increasing consolidation, interdependence and complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including us. This consolidation interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any third-party technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach, termination or constraint could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses. 

Cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, may result in a material loss or have material consequences. Furthermore, the public perception that a cyber attack on our systems has been successful, whether or not this perception is correct, may damage our reputation with customers and third parties with whom we do business. A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause us negative consequences, including loss of customers and business opportunities, disruption to our operations and business, misappropriation or destruction of our confidential information and/or that of our customers, or damage to our customers&#8217; and/or third parties&#8217; computers or systems, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy laws and other laws, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in our security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, additional compliance costs, and could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 

We are exposed to losses related to fraud. 

As technology continues to evolve, criminals are using increasingly more sophisticated techniques to commit and hide fraudulent activity. Fraudulent activity can come in many forms, including debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, wire fraud, electronic scanning devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering, digital fraud and phishing attacks to obtain personal information and fraudulent impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. To counter the increased sophistication of these fraudulent activities, we have increased our investment in systems, technologies and controls to detect and prevent such fraud. Combating fraudulent activities as they evolve will result in continued ongoing investments in the future as significant fraud could adversely impact our reputation or results of operation. 

We depend on key personnel for our success. 

Our success depends to a great extent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We have an experienced management team the Board believes is capable of managing and growing our business. Losses of, or changes in, our current executive officers or other key personnel and their expertise and services may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have developed an Executive Officer succession plan, but we cannot be certain of its transition or implementation success. There also can be no assurance we will be successful in retaining our current executive officers or other key personnel, or hiring additional key personnel to assist in executing our growth, expansion and acquisition strategies. 

We are subject to litigation risks, and our expenses related to litigation may adversely affect our results. 

We are subject to litigation risks in the ordinary course of our business. Claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, that may be initiated against us from time to time could involve large monetary sums and significant defense costs. During the last credit crisis, we saw the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. The outcomes of such cases are always uncertain until finally adjudicated or resolved. 

We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and our liability can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual amount paid in resolution of a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for the matter. The ultimate resolution of a legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and any relief granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Substantial legal claims or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured legal liabilities and/or regulatory actions which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note T, Commitments and Contingencies, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our business and financial performance could be impacted by natural disasters, acts of war or terrorist activities. 

Natural disasters (including but not limited to earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, and explosions), acts of war and terrorist activities could hurt our performance (i) directly through damage to our facilities or other impacts to our ability to conduct business in the ordinary course, and (ii) indirectly through such damage or impacts to our customers, suppliers or other counterparties. In particular, a significant amount of our business is concentrated in North Carolina and South Carolina, including coastal areas where our retail and commercial customers have been and in the future could be impacted by hurricanes and flooding. We could also suffer adverse results to the extent that disasters, wars, terrorist activities, riots or civil unrest affect the broader markets or economy. Our ability to minimize the consequences of such events is in significant measure reliant on the quality of our disaster recovery planning and our ability, if any, to forecast the events. 

We rely on third parties. 

Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. Their services could be difficult to quickly replace in the event of failure or other interruption in service. Failures of certain vendors to provide services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. External vendors also present information security risks. We monitor significant vendor risks, including the financial stability of critical vendors. The failure of a critical external vendor could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant expense. 

The quality of our data could deteriorate and cause financial or reputational harm to the Bank. 

While we have a Data Governance program, it is reliant on the execution of procedures, process controls and system functionality and there is no guarantee errors will not occur. Incomplete, inconsistent, or inaccurate data could lead to non-compliance with regulatory statutes and result in fines. Additionally, customer impact could result in reputational harm and customer attrition. Inaccurate or incomplete data presents the risk that business decisions relying on such data will prove inefficient or ineffective. Additionally, information we provide to our investors and regulators may be negatively impacted by inaccurate or incomplete data. 

Malicious action by an employee could result in harm to our customers or the Bank. 

Several high-profile cases of misconduct have occurred at other financial institutions. Such an event may lead to large regulatory fines, as well as an erosion in customer confidence, which could impact our financial position. BancShares&#8217; employees are subject to a code of ethics which requires annual review. We also have policies governing our compensation, conduct and sales practices designed to deter and respond to potential employee misconduct. 

Credit Risks 

If we fail to effectively manage credit risk, our business and financial condition will suffer. 

We must effectively manage credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks of repayment, risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. There is no assurance that our loan approval procedures and our credit risk monitoring are or will be adequate to or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business, and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 

Our allowance for credit losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. 

We maintain an allowance for credit losses (&#8220;ACL&#8221;) that is designed to cover credit losses on loans that borrowers may not repay in their entirety. An ACL is also recorded over expected losses in investment securities and unfunded commitments, though these are not significant compared to losses within the loan portfolio. We believe that we maintain an ACL at a level adequate to absorb the expected credit losses over the life of the loan portfolio, adjusted for expected contractual payments and the impact of prepayments, in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, the ACL may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Accounting measurements related to asset impairment and the ACL require significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty and revisions driven by new information and changing circumstances. The significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers&#8217; abilities to conduct their businesses successfully through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors complicate our estimates of the risk and/or amount of loss on any loan. Due to the degree of uncertainty and the susceptibility to change, the actual losses may vary from current estimates. We also expect fluctuations in the ACL due to economic changes nationally as well as locally within the states in which we conduct business. This is especially true as the economy reacts to the continuation of and potential recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. 

As an integral part of their examination process, our banking regulators periodically review the ACL and may require us to increase it by recognizing additional provisions for credit losses charged to expense or to decrease the allowance by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such required additional credit loss provisions or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our concentration of loans to borrowers within the medical and dental industries could impair our earnings if those industries experience economic difficulties. 

Statutory or regulatory changes, or economic conditions in the market generally, could negatively impact borrowers&#8217; businesses and their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, smaller practices such as those in the dental industry generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, and generally have a heightened vulnerability to negative economic conditions. Consequently, we could be required to increase our ACL through additional provisions on our income statement, which would reduce reported net income. While medical and dental practices were initially impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, there have not been significant credit deterioration or increased provisions for these borrowers to date. See Note D, Loans and Leases, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 

Economic conditions in real estate markets and our reliance on junior liens may adversely impact our business and our results of operations. 

Real property collateral values may be impacted by economic conditions in the real estate market and may result in losses on loans that, while adequately collateralized at the time of origination, become inadequately collateralized. Our reliance on junior liens is concentrated in our consumer revolving mortgage loan portfolio. Approximately two-thirds of the consumer revolving mortgage portfolio is secured by junior lien positions, and lower real estate values for collateral underlying these loans may cause the outstanding balance of the senior lien to exceed the value of the collateral, resulting in a junior lien loan becoming effectively unsecured. Inadequate collateral values, rising interest rates and unfavorable economic conditions could result in greater delinquencies, write-downs or charge-offs in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and capital adequacy. 

Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and/or other relationships. We have exposure to numerous financial services providers, including banks, securities brokers and dealers and other financial services providers. Although we monitor the financial conditions of financial institutions with which we have credit exposure, transactions with those institutions expose us to credit risk through the possibility of counterparty default. 

Market Risks 

Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business. 

Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our banking operations are located within several states but are locally oriented and community-based. Our retail and commercial banking activities are primarily concentrated within the same geographic footprint. Our markets include the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Western United States, with our greatest presence in North Carolina and South Carolina. Worsening economic conditions within our markets, particularly within North Carolina and South Carolina, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. Unfavorable changes in unemployment, real estate values, interest rates and other factors could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. The COVID-19 pandemic has created volatility and uncertainty in the economy, which has and will continue to impact our business. Thus far, this includes declines in fee income and impacts on the fair value of our equity securities, but could create additional negative impacts to provision for credit losses and declines in demand for our products and services. 

In addition, the political environment, the level of U.S. debt and global economic conditions can have a destabilizing effect on financial markets. Weakness in any of our market areas could have an adverse impact on our earnings, and consequently, our financial condition and capital adequacy. 

Accounting for acquired assets may result in earnings volatility. 

Fair value discounts that are recorded at the time an asset is acquired are accreted into interest income based on accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;). The rate at which those discounts are accreted is unpredictable and the result of various factors including prepayments and estimated credit losses. Post-acquisition credit deterioration results in the recognition of provision expense. Additionally, the income statement impact of adjustments to the indemnification asset recorded in certain FDIC-assisted transactions may occur over a shorter period of time than the adjustments to the covered assets. 

Fair value discount accretion, post-acquisition impairment and adjustments to the indemnification asset may result in significant volatility in our earnings. Volatility in earnings could unfavorably influence investor interest in our common stock, thereby depressing the market value of our stock and the market capitalization of our company. 

The performance of equity securities and corporate bonds in the investment portfolio could be adversely impacted by the soundness and fluctuations in the market values of other financial institutions. 

Our investment securities portfolio contains certain equity securities and corporate bonds of other financial institutions. As a result, a portion of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in the financial stability and market value of other financial institutions, as well as interest rate sensitivity to economic and market conditions. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have seen volatile earnings impacts related to the fair value of equity securities throughout 2020. 

Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. 

Our results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are sensitive to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including the actions of the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s Federal Open Market Committee (&#8220;FOMC&#8221;). Changes in monetary policy could influence interest income, interest expense, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If changes in interest rates on our interest-earning assets are not equal to the changes in interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest income and, therefore, our net income, could be adversely impacted. 

As interest rates rise, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margins may decrease, negatively impacting our performance and, potentially, our financial condition. To the extent banks and other financial services providers compete for interest-bearing deposit accounts through higher interest rates, our deposit base could be reduced if we are unwilling to pay those higher rates. If we decide to compete with those higher interest rates, our cost of funds could increase and our net interest margins could be reduced. Additionally, higher interest rates will impact our ability to originate new loans. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to meet higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 

Although we maintain an interest rate risk monitoring system, the forecasts of future net interest income are estimates and may be inaccurate. Actual interest rate movements may differ from our forecasts, and unexpected actions by the FOMC may have a direct impact on market interest rates. 

We may be adversely impacted by the transition from LIBOR as a reference rate 

In 2017, the United Kingdom&#8217;s Financial Conduct Authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;). Subsequent announcements have delayed the potential date for certain LIBOR tenors until June 30, 2023. Consequently, at this time, it is not possible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide submissions for the calculation of LIBOR. Similarly, there is still uncertainty around how quickly different alternative rates will develop sufficient liquidity and industry-wide usage, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may be on the markets for LIBOR-indexed financial instruments. 

We have loans, borrowings and other financial instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectly dependent on LIBOR. The transition from LIBOR could create additional costs and risks. Since proposed alternative rates are calculated differently, payments under contracts referencing new rates will differ from those referencing LIBOR. The transition will change our market risk profiles, requiring changes to risk and pricing models, systems, contracts, valuation tools, and product design. Furthermore, failure to adequately manage this transition process with our customers could adversely impact our reputation and potentially introduce additional legal risks. Although our current LIBOR exposure on loans is limited to less than $5 billion, and we are currently taking steps to transition to alternative reference rates, failure to adequately manage the transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The value of our goodwill may decline in the future. 

At December 31, 2020, we had $350.3 million of goodwill recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. We also test goodwill for impairment when certain events occur, such as a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or a sustained decline in the price of our common stock. These tests may result in a write-off of goodwill deemed to be impaired, which could have a significant impact on our financial results; however, any such write-off would not impact our regulatory capital ratios, given that regulatory capital ratios are calculated using tangible capital amounts. 

The market price of our stock may be volatile. 

Although publicly traded, our common stock, particularly our Class B common stock, has less liquidity and public float than many other large, publicly traded financial services companies. Lower liquidity increases the price volatility of our stock and could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell or buy our common stock at specific prices. 

Excluding the impact of liquidity, the market price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to other factors, including expectations of financial and operating results, actual operating results, actions of institutional shareholders, speculation in the press or the investment community, market perception of acquisitions, rating agency upgrades or downgrades, stock prices of other companies that are similar to us, general market expectations related to the financial services industry and the potential impact of government actions affecting the financial services industry. For example, the closing price per share of our Class A Common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market ranged from a low of $282.90 to a high of $613.22 during the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Liquidity Risks 

If our current level of balance sheet liquidity were to experience pressure, it could affect our ability to pay deposits and fund our operations. 

Our deposit base represents our primary source of core funding and balance sheet liquidity. We normally have the ability to stimulate core deposit growth through reasonable and effective pricing strategies. However, in circumstances where our ability to generate needed liquidity is impaired, we need access to non-core funding such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (&#8220;FHLB&#8221;) and the Federal Reserve, Federal Funds purchased lines and brokered deposits. While we maintain access to these non-core funding sources, some sources are dependent on the availability of collateral as well as the counterparty&#8217;s willingness and ability to lend. 

Capital Adequacy Risks 

Our ability to grow is contingent upon access to capital. 

Our primary capital sources have been retained earnings and debt issued through both private and public markets. Rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to BancShares and FCB. The ratings of the agencies are based on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. In addition to factors specific to our financial strength and performance, the rating agencies also consider conditions generally affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. Rating reductions could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost of obtaining funding. 

Based on existing capital levels, BancShares and FCB are well-capitalized under current leverage and risk-based capital standards. Our ability to grow is contingent on our ability to generate sufficient capital to remain well-capitalized under current and future capital adequacy guidelines. 

We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. 

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BancShares, together with FCB, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. 

We are subject to capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve including required minimum capital and leverage ratios. These requirements could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, restrict certain business activities or compel us to raise capital, each of which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. 

Compliance Risks 

We operate in a highly regulated industry; the laws and regulations that govern our operations, taxes, corporate governance, executive compensation and financial accounting and reporting, including changes in them or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. 

We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. In addition to a multitude of regulations designed to protect customers, depositors and consumers, we must comply with other regulations that protect the deposit insurance fund and the stability of the U.S. financial system, including laws and regulations that, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements; impose limitations on our business activities and investments; limit the dividends or distributions that we can pay; restrict the ability of our bank subsidiaries to guarantee our debt; and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes in laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (&#8220;Nasdaq&#8221;), as well as numerous other recently enacted statutes and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, EGRRCPA, and regulations promulgated thereunder, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our external audit and maintaining our internal controls. Such additional regulation and supervision may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 

The failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, including mergers and acquisitions, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our common stock. 

We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax laws and other laws and regulations. 

Corporate tax rates affect our profitability and capital levels. The U.S. corporate tax code may be further reformed by the U.S. Congress and additional guidance may be issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes in tax laws and regulations, and income tax rates in particular, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Financial Reporting Risks 

Accounting standards may change and increase our operating costs and/or otherwise adversely affect our results. 

FASB and the SEC periodically modify the standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. The nature of these changes is not predictable and could impact how we record transactions in our financial statements, which could lead to material changes in assets, liabilities, shareholders&#8217; equity, revenues, expenses and net income. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised standards retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results or a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. Implementation of new accounting rules or standards could additionally require us to implement technology changes which could impact ongoing earnings. 

Our accounting policies and processes are critical to the reporting of financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. 

Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how BancShares records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with GAAP. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in BancShares reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 

Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective or complex conclusions about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. BancShares has established policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding management's judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, BancShares cannot guarantee that it will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See &#8220;Critical Accounting Policies&#8221; included in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Our business is highly quantitative and requires widespread use of financial models for day-to-day operations; these models may produce inaccurate predictions that significantly vary from actual results. 

We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Such models may be used in many processes including, but not limited to, the pricing of various products and services, classifications of loans, setting interest rates on loans and deposits, quantifying interest rate and other market risks, forecasting losses, measuring capital adequacy and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels. Models may also be used to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Inaccurate or erroneous models present the risk that business decisions relying on the models will prove inefficient or ineffective. Additionally, information we provide to our investors and regulators may be negatively impacted by inaccurately designed or implemented models. For further information on models, see the &#8220;Risk Management&#8221; section included in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and disclosures. 

We must have effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies requiring remediation. A &#8220;material weakness&#8221; is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company&#8217;s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 

We continually work to improve our internal controls; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure appropriate and adequate controls over our future financial processes and reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to implement any necessary improvement of our internal controls in a timely manner could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the market value of our common stock. 

