```
capital_one_financial_corporation_2023_Q4

          Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them?
          Some security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect themselves from online fraud

          Trying to keep the bad guys from stealing your credit-card number? Consider using a virtual card for online or
          phone purchases.                                                        
          Customers of credit-card firms such as Capital One can generate a
          virtual-card number for an individual purchase when they are concerned about the security of using their
          permanent-card number. This free service uses regular credit-card accounts to generate unique numbers,
          card-verification codes and expiration dates.                           
          Virtual credit cards have existed for many years, but many consumers and business owners haven't used
          them. Now, as online fraud and security breaches are on the rise, virtual credit cards are an underused tool
          that can help shoppers protect themselves, some security experts say.   

          Why should I consider a virtual card?                                   
          The primary reason: Virtual cards can reduce the damage done by fraud. They come with the same
          protections against fraud that plastic comes with; federal law says consumers aren't liable for more than $50
          in charges that result from lost or stolen credit-card information. But the time and energy expended to replace
          a compromised card can be a hassle, especially if it is used for automated payments.

          How do I get a virtual card?                                            
          First, your card company has to offer the option for your particular card. Several banks offer virtual cards only
          to corporate cardholders or for select cards. Assuming the option is available, the next step will depend on
          the provider. Sometimes, virtual cards can be created using a link on the card issuer's website after the user
          logs in to his or her account. 

          How do I use a virtual card?                                            
          Using a virtual card can require some extra work for consumers. Before customers use the service to make
          an online purchase, some card providers require them to first log in to their credit-card account and receive
          an authentication code. Once they are authenticated, they can shop using virtual cards. Some providers offer
          the option of using multiple virtual cards with different numbers that can vary by purchase limit. 

          Are they all the same?                                                  
          While the basic concept is the same, virtual cards can function differently, depending on the provider. Some
          virtual cards are for single use, while others can be used multiple times and allow customers to set spending
          limits and expiration dates. Capital One
          users can lock or unlock their virtual cards at any time.               

          How are banks making virtual cards easier to use?                       
          Some card companies are starting to offer an option that "might bring virtual cards back to the forefront," says
          Odysseas Papadimitriou, CEO of WalletHub, which tracks credit-card trends.
          Capital One users have the option to get virtual-card numbers by using Eno, its 24/7 virtual assistant.
          Customers add the Eno browser extension and the assistant generates virtual-card numbers when it is time
          to pay. The only thing users need to do is fill in the shipping and billing information. Eno automatically saves
          virtual-card numbers for each merchant so they can be used again.       
          Some consumers may prefer using virtual cards in this manner since it is more seamless than logging into an
          account each time they want to make a purchase. They should, however, be sure their devices remain secure
          to mitigate the chance of unauthorized purchases.                       
          "This type of application for the virtual card has a bright future," Papadimitriou says.
```