Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them?
Some security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect themselves from online fraud
Customers of credit-card firms such as Capital One, Citibank and American Express can generate a
virtual-card number for an individual purchase when they are concerned about the security of using their
permanent-card number. This free service uses regular credit-card accounts to generate unique numbers,
card-verification codes and expiration dates.                           
American Express, for example, has a partnership with Google that works with the Chrome browser.
Consumers shopping from a Google Chrome browser on their desktop, Android mobile device or select
Android apps can choose to use an Amex virtual-card number. They first have to enroll an eligible card in one
of several ways outlined on the company's website.                      
                                                                                  
For American Express, Rewards Get a Little Less Costly                  
But things are improving on this front for American Express.            
Variable customer-engagement expenses -- which include rewards and other perks -- represented about 40%
of revenue in the third quarter, Amex reported on Friday. That is down from 41% a year before.
                                                                                  
While 1 point might not seem like much, it can translate into hundreds of millions of dollars in additional profit
annually. The company said on Friday that it expects those expenses to represent 42% of revenue overall
this year, versus its guidance of 43% at the beginning of the year.     
Amex said Friday that as it adds new points-redemption partners, this is changing the weighted average cost
per point.                                                              
In plain English, this means that retailers or other merchants that want to be a place where people can spend
their points are willing to do it on terms that are a bit more favorable to Amex.
When asked by analysts on Friday about the impact of the recent flap over the frequent-flier program at Amex
partner Delta Air Lines, Amex Chief Executive Officer Stephen Squeri said "we haven't seen anything from a
card spending. . .or from a card acquisition" point of view.            
                                                                                  
Squeri said Delta card spending grew almost 20% year over year.         
Delta had sparked customer complaints when it changed its program to reward bigger spenders rather than
the most-frequent fliers. As part of Delta's changes to the program in response to customer concerns, some
Amex cardholders will get a boost in airport lounge access.             
On Friday, broader worries about the economy and interest rates hit bank stocks, with Amex falling around
5% alongside peers. But rewards costs are a longer-term trend to keep an eye on, not just for card
companies but for merchants as well.