 Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&#38;A") 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

SHUSA is the parent holding company of SBNA, a national banking association, and owns approximately 77.7% (as of June 30, 2020) of SC, a specialized consumer finance company. SHUSA is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and the Bank's main office is in Wilmington, Delaware. SC is headquartered in Dallas, Texas. SHUSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Santander. SHUSA is also the parent company of Santander BanCorp, a holding company headquartered in Puerto Rico that offers a full range of financial services through its wholly-owned banking subsidiary, BSPR; SSLLC, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in Boston; BSI, a financial services company headquartered in Miami that offers a full range of banking services to foreign individuals and corporations based primarily in Latin America; SIS, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in New York providing services in investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities; and several other subsidiaries. SSLLC, SIS and another SHUSA subsidiary, SAM, are registered investment advisers with the SEC. 

The Bank's principal markets are in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern United States. The Bank uses its deposits, as well as other financing sources, to fund its loan and investment portfolios. The Bank earns interest income on its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, the Bank generates non-interest income from a number of sources, including deposit and loan services, sales of loans and investment securities, capital markets products and BOLI. The principal non-interest expenses include employee compensation and benefits, occupancy and facility-related costs, technology and other administrative expenses. The financial results of the Bank are affected by the economic environment, including interest rates and consumer and business confidence and spending, as well as the competitive conditions within the Bank's geographic footprint. 

SC is a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SC's primary business is the indirect origination and securitization of RICs, principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to subprime retail consumers. Further information about SC&#8217;s business is provided below in the &#8220;Chrysler Capital&#8221; section. 

SC is managed through a single reporting segment which included vehicle financial products and services, including RICs, vehicle leases, and dealer loans, as well as financial products and services related to recreational and marine vehicles and other consumer finance products. 

SC also originates vehicle loans through a web-based direct lending program, purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile and recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. Additionally, SC has other relationships through which it holds other consumer finance products. However, in 2015, SC announced its exit from personal lending and, accordingly, all of its personal lending assets are classified as HFS at December 31, 2019. 

Since its IPO, SC has been consolidated with the Company and Santander for financial reporting and accounting purposes. If the Company directly owned 80% or more of SC Common Stock, SC could be consolidated with the Company for tax filing and capital planning purposes. Among other things, tax consolidation would (1) facilitate certain offsets of SC&#8217;s taxable income, (2) eliminate the double taxation of dividends from SC, and (3) trigger a release into SHUSA&#8217;s income of an approximately $306.6 million deferred tax liability recognized with respect to the GAAP basis vs. the income tax basis in the Company's ownership of SC. Tax consolidation would also allow for SC's net deferred tax liability to off-set the Company's net deferred tax asset, which w ould provide a regulatory capital benefit. In addition, SHUSA and Santander would recognize a larger percentage of SC's net income.On August 10 2020, SC substantively exhausted the amount of shares the Company was permitted to repurchase under the Exception, and as a result of these repurchases, SHUSA now owns approximately 80.25% of SC. SC Common Stock is listed for trading on the NYSE under the trading symbol "SC" 

Chrysler Capital 

Since May 2013, under the Chrysler Agreement, SC has operated as FCA&#8217;s preferred provider for consumer loans, leases and dealer loans and provides services to FCA customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Chrysler Capital continues to be a focal point of SC's strategy. On June 28, 2019, SC entered into an amendment to the Chrysler Agreement with FCA which modified the Chrysler Agreement to, among other things, adjust certain performance metrics, exclusivity commitments and payment provisions under the Chrysler Agreement. The amendment also established an operating framework that is mutually beneficial for both parties for the remainder of the contract. The Company's average penetration rate under the Chrysler Agreement for the second quarter of 2020 was 37%, an increase from 36% for the same period in 2019. 

SC has dedicated financing facilities in place for its Chrysler Capital business and has worked strategically and collaboratively with FCA to continue to strengthen its relationship and create value within the Chrysler Capital program. During the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, SC originated $7.3 billion in Chrysler Capital loans, which represented 62% of the UPB of its total RIC originations, as well as $3.0 billion in Chrysler Capital leases. Additionally, substantially all of the leases originated by SC during six-month period ended June 30, 2020 were under the Chrysler Agreement. 

ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 

Overview 

During the second quarter of 2020, unemployment increased and year-to-date market results were mixed, reflecting the effects of COVID-19. 

The unemployment rate at June 30, 2020 was 11.1%, compared to 4.4% at March 31, 2020, and 3.7% one year ago. Unemployment levels are expected to improve in the third quarter of 2020 and beyond as a result of the continued resumption of economic activity from the effects of COVID-19. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment rose sharply in the leisure and hospitality sector. In addition, notable increases were seen in retail trade, education and health services, manufacturing, and professional and business services. 

Market year-to-date returns for the following indices based on closing prices at June 30, 2020 were: 

June 30, 2020 Dow Jones Industrial Average (9.3)% S&#38;P 500 (3.8)% NASDAQ Composite 12.4% 

In light of the effects COVID-19 will have on economic activity, at its June 2020 meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to maintain the federal funds rate target range to 0.00% to 0.25%. The Committee expects to maintain this target rate until it is confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve its maximum employment and price stability. This action will help support economic activity, strong labor market conditions and inflation to remain at the targeted rate of 2.0%. 

The ten-year Treasury bond rate at June 30, 2020 was 0.65%, down from 1.90% at December 31, 2019. Within the industry, changes in this metric are often considered to correspond to changes in 15-year and 30-year mortgage rates. 

Changing market conditions are considered a significant risk factor to the Company. The interest rate environment can present challenges in the growth of net interest income for the banking industry, which continues to rely on non-interest activities to support revenue growth. Changing market conditions and political uncertainty could have an overall impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Such conditions could also impact the Company's credit risk and the associated credit loss expense and legal expense . 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Credit Rating Actions 

The following table presents Moody&#8217;s, S&#38;P and Fitch credit ratings for the Bank, BSPR, SHUSA, Santander, and the Kingdom of Spain: 

BANK BSPR SHUSA Moody's S&#38;P Fitch Moody's S&#38;P Fitch Moody's S&#38;P Fitch Long-Term Baa1 A- BBB+ Baa1 N/A BBB+ Baa3 BBB+ BBB+ Short-Term P-1 A-2 F-2 P-2 N/A F-2 N/A A-2 F-2 Outlook Stable Negative Negative Stable N/A Negative Stable Negative Negative 

SANTANDER SPAIN Moody's S&#38;P Fitch Moody's S&#38;P Fitch Long-Term A2 A A- Baa1 A A- Short-Term P-1 A-1 F-2 P-2 A-1 F-1 Outlook Stable Negative Negative Stable Stable Stable 

SHUSA funds its operations independently of the other entities owned by Santander, and believes its business is not necessarily closely related to the business or outlook of other entities owned by Santander. Future changes in the credit ratings of its parent, Santander, or the Kingdom of Spain, however, could impact SHUSA's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings, and any other change in the condition of Santander could affect SHUSA. 

At this time, SC is not rated by the major credit rating agencies. 

Impacts of COVID- 19 on our current and future financial and operating status and planning 

The current outbreak of COVID-19 has materially impacted our business, and the continuance of this pandemic or any future outbreak of any other highly contagious diseases or other public health emergency, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 

Due to the unpredictable and rapidly changing nature of this outbreak and the resulting economic distress, it is not possible to determine with certainty the ultimate impact on our results of operations or whether other currently unanticipated consequences of the pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our results of operations; however, certain adverse effects have already occurred or are probable. The following summarizes our current expectations of the impacts of COVID-19 on the Company's current financial and operating status, as well as on its future operational and financial planning as of the date hereof: 

&#8226; Impact on workforce: The health and well-being of our colleagues and customers is a top priority for the Company. The Company has implemented business continuity plans and has followed guidelines issued by government authorities regarding social distancing and work-from-home arrangements. Currently, approximately 90-95% of the workforce continues to work from home. In addition, the Company has established a Temporary Emergency Paid Leave Program that provides employees with up to 120 hours of additional paid time off to use &#8211; either continuously or intermittently, and before exhausting other paid time off &#8211; to assist with dependent care needs related to COVID-19. Further, the Company provided $250 a week in pay premiums for frontline customer support workers to help defray additional costs incurred while coming to work during the pandemic. 

While our business continuity plans are in place, if significant portions of our workforce, our subsidiaries' workforces, or our vendors' workforces are unable to work effectively as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, including because of illness, stay-at-home orders, facility closures, reductions in services or hours of operation, or ineffective remote work arrangements, there may be servicing disruptions, which could result in reduced collection effectiveness or impair our or our subsidiaries' ability to operate our businesses and satisfy obligations under third-party servicing agreements. Each of these scenarios could have negative effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

&#8226; Impact on services: The COVID-19 outbreak as well as state stay-at-home orders resulted in the closure of certain branches in highly affected areas within the Bank's footprint. To comply with social distancing guidelines and help minimize the spread of the coronavirus, the Bank instituted temporary changes to how it operates, including closure of certain branches and limitations on services provided to others. Certain limited service locations were only performing teller transactions- such as depositing and cashing checks and handling requests for cash withdrawals, money orders and cashier's checks - in the lobby or at the drive-through. In addition, some branches were only providing account opening and servicing with a banker by appointment only. Full and limited-service branches are limiting the number of people allowed in our locations at one time. Branch hours have been changed temporarily, with certain branches providing special hours for high-risk customers. As the quarter wore on and states changed their guidance, the Bank has resumed normal branch operations for over 90% of its current branches while maintaining applicable social distancing guidelines. Retail customers are encouraged to take advantage of mobile and online banking enabling customers to bank anytime, anywhere, for services including: checking account balances, remote check deposit, transfers, bill pay, and more. Retail customers can also utilize automated services via phone to make balance and transaction inquiries, payments on loans, transfers between accounts, stop payments, and more. Our call center remains staffed and open seven days a week to better serve our customers. Business customers can continue to utilize the business mobile banking application and business online banking to minimize the need to go to branches or exchange cash. We have developed the "Business First Coronavirus Resource Page" for our business customers during this time. 

&#8226; Impact on customers and loan and lease performance: The COVID-19 outbreak and associated economic crisis have led to negative effects on our customers. Unlike the regional impact of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, the COVID-19 outbreak is impacting customers nationwide and is expected to have a materially more significant impact on the performance of our loan and lease portfolios than even the most severe historical natural disaster. 

Closures and disruptions to businesses in the United States have led to negative effects on our customers. Similar to many other financial institutions, we have taken and will continue to take measures to mitigate our customers&#8217; COVID-19-related economic challenges. The Company is actively working with its borrowers who have been impacted by COVID-19. This unique and evolving situation has created temporary personal and financial challenges for our retail and commercial borrowers. The Company is working prudently with borrowers who are or may be unable to meet their contractual payment obligations because of the effects of COVID-19 and has developed loan modification and deferral programs to mitigate the adverse effects of COVID-19 to our loan customers. We have experienced a sharp increase in requests for extensions and modifications related to COVID-19 nationwide and a significant number of such extensions and modifications have been granted. The Bank also perm itted fee reversals for those customers impacted by COVID-19, even if the amount exceed the allowable courtesy fee reversal. The Bank also joined other U.S. banks in providing overdrawn customers full access to their EIP by providing a temporary credit in the amount of their overdrawn balance as of the end of the day prior to receipt of the EIP, up to a limit of 5,000. To date, the Bank has provided over $3 million in temporary credits, helping nearly 10,000 customers. Beginning July 15, 2020, the Bank began removing these temporary credits from customers&#8217; accounts. 

These customer support programs, by their nature, are expected to negatively impact our financial performance and other results of operations in the near term. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected in the longer term if the COVID-19 outbreak leads us to continue to provide such programs for a significant period of time, if the number of customers experiencing hardship related directly or indirectly to the outbreak of COVID-19 increases, or if our customer support programs are not effective in mitigating the effects of COVID-19 on our customers' financial situations. Given the unpredictable nature of this situation, the nature and extent of such effects cannot be predicted at this time. 

In addition to the measures discussed above, the Bank is providing assistance for its retail customers, including helping those experiencing difficulties with loan payments, waiving fees for early CD withdrawals, refunding late payment and overdraft fees, offering credit card limit increases, and increasing cash availability limits at ATMs. For business banking customers, the Bank is working with customers in offering interest-only loan accommodations, deferrals and extensions up to 90 days for customers experiencing hardships, and minimum monthly processing fees for merchant service customers. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The Bank also permitted fee reversals for those customers impacted by COVID-19, even if the amount exceed the allowable courtesy fee reversal. The Bank also joined other U.S. banks in providing overdrawn customers full access to their EIP by providing a temporary credit in the amount of their overdrawn balance as of the end of the day prior to receipt of the EIP, up to a limit of $5,000. To date, the Bank has provided over $3 million in temporary credits helping nearly 10,000 customers. Beginning July 15, 2020, the Bank began removing these temporary credits from customers&#8217; accounts. 

The PPP, a key part of the CARES Act, authorizes loans to small businesses to help meet payroll costs and pay other eligible expenses during the COVID-19 outbreak. The program is administered by the SBA, and the loans and accrued interest are forgivable as long as the borrower uses at least 60% of the proceeds of the loan for eligible purposes, such as payroll, benefits, rent and utilities, and maintains employee and payroll levels. The original funding for the PPP was fully allocated by mid-April 2020, with additional funding made available on April 24, 2020. Original loans were originated with a two-year maturity, unless extended by mutual agreement between the lender and borrower. Loans made on or after June 5, 2020 have a five-year maturity. In July 2020, the PPP was extended through August 8, 2020. The Bank originated loans in the first and second rounds of PPP. To date, the Bank has assisted more than 11,600 business customers in receiving PPP loans for more than $1.2 billion in funding. As of mid-July 2020, the Bank is waiting on the finalization of updated SBA rules and guidelines for lenders before accepting loan forgiveness applications. On July 23, 2020, the SBA announced that it will begin accepting lender submissions on August 10, 2020, &#8220;subject to extension if any new legislative amendments to the forgiveness process necessitate changes to the system.&#8221; A PPP legislative proposal was released on July 27, 2020 which fundamentally changes the forgiveness process for PPP loans of $2million and under. While the Bank is prepared to launch its forgiveness application in mid-August, legislative activity and/or new SBA guidance may cause the Bank to postpone its launch to align with changes in law or guidance. 

&#8226; Impact on originations, including the relationship with FCA: In many jurisdictions, businesses such as automobile dealers have been required to temporarily close or restrict their operations. Further, even for dealerships that have remained open, consumer demand has deteriorated rapidly. In response, SC has partnered with FCA to launch new incentive programs including the first payment deferred for 90 days on select FCA models and a 0% annual percentage yield for 84 months on select 2019/2020 FCA models. However, if the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic is sustained, it could result in further declines in new and used vehicle sales and downward pressure on used vehicle values, which could materially adversely affect our origination of auto loans and leases and the performance of our existing loans and leases. 

&#8226; While banking is considered an essential business in all of the Bank&#8217;s footprint states, executive orders have limited the scope of work of vendors supporting mortgage and home equity lines of credit such as appraisers, notaries, law firms, title companies and settlement agents or stopped these vendors from working altogether. As a result of these restrictions, the number of mortgages, home equity lines of credit and refinancings have declined, and the Bank has had to stop loan and line originations in certain states. Because it is unclear how long these executive orders and laws related to COVID-19 will remain in place, it is difficult to estimate the overall negative impact these orders will continue to have on mortgage and home equity line of credit originations and refinancings. 

&#8226; Impact on operations: Government and regulatory authorities could also implement laws, regulations, executive orders and other guidance that allow customers to forgo making scheduled payments for some period of time, require modifications to receivables (e.g., waiving accrued interest), preclude creditors from exercising certain rights or taking certain actions with respect to collateral, including repossession or liquidation of collateral, or mandate limited operations or temporary closures of the Company or our vendors as &#8220;non-essential businesses&#8221; or otherwise. While we have business continuity plans in place, if significant portions of our or our vendors&#8217; workforces are unable to work effectively as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including because of illness, stay-at-home orders, facility closures reductions in services or hours of operation, or ineffective remote work arrangements, there may be servicing disruptions, which could result in reduced collection effectiveness or our ability to operate our business and satisfy our obligations under our third-party servicing agreements. Each of these scenarios could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

&#8226; Impact on debt and liquidity: As international trade and business activity has slowed and supply chains have been disrupted, global credit and financial markets have recently experienced, and may continue to experience significant disruption and volatility. During the first and second quarters of 2020, financial markets experienced significant declines and volatility, and such market conditions may continue and/or precede recessionary conditions in the U.S. economy. Under these circumstances, we may experience some or all of the risks related to market volatility and recessionary conditions described under the caption "We are vulnerable to disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets" in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K. 

Governmental and regulatory authorities have recently implemented fiscal and monetary policies and initiatives to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on the economy and individual businesses and households, such as the reduction of the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate to near zero in March 2020. Further, the Federal Reserve's TALF is available, if necessary, to support investment in SC's eligible ABS bonds. However, the Company does not expect to need to utilize TALF, given recent tightening in ABS credit spreads. These governmental and regulatory actions may not be successful in mitigating the adverse economic effects of COVID-19 and could affect our net interest income and reduce our profitability. Sustained adverse economic effects from the outbreak may also result in downgrades in our credit ratings or adversely affect the interest rate environment. If our access to funding is reduced or if our costs to obtain such funding significantly increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

The Company's liquidity comes from several primary sources outlined in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of this MD&#38;A, including deposits, as well as public and financing activities. During the quarter, SHUSA issued approximately $1.6 billion of unsecured debt, including: approximately $0.45 billion of 3-year fixed debt instrument through a private placement and $1.0 billion of 5-year fixed debt through public offering. During Q2, SBNA maintained ample liquidity driven by increase in customer deposits. As a result there was minimal wholesale funding activity at SBNA, limited to $500 million brokered CD issuance in June. In addition to significant amounts of liquidity from warehouse lines and affiliate lines of credit, SC successfully accessed the ABS market in the quarter. During the quarter SC completed on-balance sheet funding transactions totaling approximately $2.9 billion, including: securitizations on its DRIVE, deeper subprime platform, for approximately $0.9 billion; private amortizing lease facilities for approximately $1.0 billion; and, securitization on its SDART platform for approximately $1.0 billion. However, due to the rapidly evolving nature of the COVID-19 outbreak, it is not possible to predict whether unanticipated consequences of the pandemic will materially affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. 

&#8226; Impact on dividends: Historically the Company made dividend payments to Santander, and received dividends from the Bank and other IHC entities. The amount and size of any future dividends, however, will be subject to various factors, including the Company's capital and liquidity positions, regulatory considerations, impacts related to the COVID-19 outbreak, any accounting standards that affect capital or liquidity (including CECL), financial and operational performance, alternative uses of capital, and general market conditions, and may be changed or suspended at any time. 

&#8226; Impact on impairment of goodwill, indefinite-lived and long-lived assets: The Company has analyzed the impact of COVID-19 on its financial statements, including the potential for impairment. As a result of this analysis, the Company has recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.8 billion during the second quarter of 2020. The analysis did not indicate any impairment for the Company's loan and lease portfolios, leased vehicles, ROU assets, or other non-financial assets such as upfront fees or other intangibles. 

&#8226; Impact on communities: The Company is committed to supporting our communities impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the Company's non-profit foundation has begun responding to the COVID-19 crisis with $200 thousand in donations to a select group of organizations addressing community issues. 

In addition, SHUSA's ongoing support for non-profit partners providing essential services in our communities includes $15.0 million in charitable giving this year. Further SHUSA will provide $25.0 million in financing to community development financial institutions to fund small business loans and will expedite grant funding and payments where possible to help sustain nonprofit operations during this time. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

REGULATORY MATTERS 

The activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the Bank and SC, are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws and regulatory agencies which impose regulations, supervise and conduct examinations, and may affect the operations and management of the Company and its ability to take certain actions, including making distributions to our parent, Santander. The Company is regulated on a consolidated basis by the Federal Reserve, including the FRB of Boston, and the CFPB. The Company's banking and bank holding company subsidiaries are further supervised by the FDIC and the OCC. As a subsidiary of the Company, SC is also subject to regulatory oversight by the Federal Reserve as well as the CFPB. Santander BanCorp and BSPR also are supervised by the Puerto Rico Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. 

Payment of Dividends 

SHUSA is the parent holding company of SBNA and other consolidated subsidiaries, and is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. SHUSA and SBNA are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including regulatory capital minimums and the requirement to remain "well-capitalized" under prompt corrective action regulations. As a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, SC is included in various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends as described in the &#8220;Stress Tests and Capital Planning&#8221; discussion in this section. Refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of this MD&#38;A for detail of the capital actions of the Company and its subsidiaries during the period. 

In June 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that, due to the economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19, it will require all large banks, including SHUSA, to update and resubmit their capital plans under new scenarios in the fourth quarter of 2020. In addition, the Federal Reserve disclosed an interim capital preservation policy to be applied in the third quarter of 2020 which includes: 

&#8226; A cap on common stock dividends which provides that the amount paid cannot exceed the average of the trailing four quarters&#8217; net income (which includes third quarter 2019 to third quarter 2020 net income); and 

&#8226; A prohibition on share repurchases. 

This policy applies to the third quarter of 2020, but may be extended by the Federal Reserve. Based on the Federal Reserve policy and the Company&#8217;s expected average trailing four quarters of net income, the Company, SBNA, and SC are prohibited from paying dividends in the third quarter of 2020. Although SC&#8217;s standalone expected income is sufficient to declare and a pay a dividend in the third quarter, SC is consolidated into SHUSA&#8217;s capital plan and therefore is subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s interim policy that utilizes SHUSA&#8217;s average trailing income to determine the cap on common stock dividends. SHUSA requested certain exceptions to the interim policy for SC to be able in the third quarter of 2020 to pay dividends of up to $0.22 per share. The Federal Reserve granted these requests, and on July 31, 2020 SC&#8217;s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per share of SC Common Stock payable to shareholders of record as of August 13, 2020. This dividend will be payable on August 24, 2020. 

FBOs 

In February 2014, the Federal Reserve issued the final rule implementing certain EPS mandated by the DFA. Under the Final Rule, FBOs with over $50 billion of U.S. non-branch assets, including Santander, were required to consolidate U.S. subsidiary activities under an IHC. In addition, the Final Rule required U.S. BHCs and FBOs with at least $50 billion in total U.S. consolidated non-branch assets to be subject to EPS and heightened capital, liquidity, risk management, and stress testing requirements. Due to both its global and U.S. non-branch total consolidated asset size, Santander was subject to both of the above provisions of the Final Rule. As a result of this rule, Santander has transferred substantially all of its U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries previously outside the Company to the Company, which became an IHC effective July 1, 2016. 

Economic Growth Act 

In May 2018, the Economic Growth Act was signed into law. The Economic Growth Act scales back certain requirements of the DFA. In October 2019, the Federal Reserve finalized a rulemaking implementing the changes required by the Economic Growth Act. The rulemaking provides a tailored approach to the EPS mandated by Section 165 of the DFA. Under the new tailored approach, banks are placed into different categories based on asset size, cross-jurisdictional activity, reliance on short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. The tailoring rule applies to both Santander and the Company. Both Santander and the Company were placed into category four of the tailoring rule. The new tailored standards are discussed further below. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

U.S. Basel III regulatory capital rules are applicable to both SHUSA and the Bank and establish a comprehensive capital framework that includes both the advanced approaches for the largest internationally active U.S. banks, formerly known as Basel II, and a standardized approach that applies to all banking organizations with over $500 million in assets. 

These rules narrow the definition of regulatory capital and establish higher minimum risk-based capital ratios and prompt corrective action thresholds that require banking organizations, including the Company and the Bank, to maintain a minimum CET1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, a total capital ratio of 8.0% and a minimum leverage ratio, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets for the quarter, of 4.0%. A further capital conservation buffer of 2.5% above these minimum ratios was phased in effective January 1, 2019. This buffer is required for banking institutions and BHCs to avoid restrictions on their ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends. 

These U.S. Basel III regulatory capital rules include deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that MSRs and deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income are deducted from CET1 to the extent any one such category exceeds 25% of CET1. Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 for the Company and the Bank began on January 1, 2015 and was initially planned over three years, with a fully phased-in requirement of January 1, 2018. However, during 2017, the regulatory agencies finalized changes to the capital rules that became effective on January 1, 2018. These changes extended the current treatment and deferred the final transition provision phase-in at non-advanced approach institutions for certain capital elements, and suspended the risk weight to 100 percent for certain deferred taxes and mortgage servicing assets not disallowed from capital, in lieu of advancing to 250 percent. During 2019, the regulatory agencies approved a final rule which includes simplifications for non-advanced approaches to the generally applicable capital rules, specifically with regard to the treatment of minority interest, as well as modifying the risk-weight to 250 percent for certain deferred taxes and mortgage servicing assets not disallowed from capital. This final rule became effective on April 1, 2020. 

As described in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, on January 1, 2020, we adopted the CECL Standard, which upon adoption resulted in a reduction to our opening retained earnings balance, net of income tax, and an increase to the allowance for loan losses of approximately $2.5 billion. As also described in our Form 10-K, the U.S. banking agencies in December 2018 approved a final rule to address the impact of CECL on regulatory capital by allowing banking organizations, including the Company, the option to phase in the day-one impact of CECL until the first quarter of 2023. In March 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued an interim final rule that provides banking organizations with an alternative option to delay for two years an estimate of CECL&#8217;s effect on regulatory capital relative to the incurred loss methodology&#8217;s effect on regulatory capital, followed by a three-year transition period. The Company has elected this alternative option instead of the one described in the December 2018 rule. 

See the Bank Regulatory Capital section of this MD&#38;A for the Company's capital ratios under Basel III standards. The implementation of certain regulations and standards relating to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect the Company's regulatory capital position relative to that of its competitors, including those that may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements as the Company. 

If capital has reached the significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvements Act and OCC regulations, institutions which are not categorized as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are restricted from making capital distributions, which include cash dividends, stock redemptions or repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the capital account of the institution. At June 30, 2020, the Bank met the criteria to be classified as &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

On March 4, 2020, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule to simplify capital rules for large banks. Under the final rule, firms' supervisory stress test results are now used to establish the size of the SCB requirement, replacing the 2.5% of risk-weighted assets component under the prior capital conservation buffer requirement. The SCB is calculated as the maximum decline in CET1 in the severely adverse scenario (subject to a 2.5% floor) plus four quarters of dividends. The rule results in new regulatory capital minimums which are equal to 4.5% of CET1 plus the SCB, any GSIB surcharge, and any countercyclical capital buffer. The GSIB buffer is applicable only to the largest and most complex firms and does not apply to SHUSA. In the event a firm falls below its new minimums, the rule imposes restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. Firms continue to submit a capital plan annually. Supervisory expectations for capital planning processes do not change under the proposal. The Company does not expect this rule to have a material impact on its current or future planned capital actions. 

Stress Testing and Capital Planning 

The DFA required certain banks and BHCs, including the Company, to perform a stress test and submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve and receive a notice of non-objection before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. In June 2018, the Company announced that the Federal Reserve did not object to the planned capital actions described in the Company&#8217;s capital plan through June 30, 2019. In February 2019, the Federal Reserve announced that SHUSA, as well as other less complex firms, would receive a one-year extension of the requirement to submit its capital plan until April 5, 2020. The Federal Reserve also announced that, for the period beginning July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, the Company would be allowed to make capital distributions up to the amount that would have allowed it to remain above all minimum capital requirements in CCAR 2018, adjusted for any changes in the Company&#8217;s regulatory capital ratios since the Federal Reserve acted on the 2018 capital plan. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve finalized rules that tailor the stress testing and capital actions a company is required to perform based on the company&#8217;s asset size, cross-jurisdictional activity, reliance on short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. Under the tailoring rules, the Company is required to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. The Company is also subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle. The Company continues to evaluate planned capital actions in its annual capital plan and on an ongoing basis. 

Liquidity Rules 

The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the OCC have established a rule to implement the Basel III LCR for certain internationally active banks and nonbank financial companies, and a modified version of the LCR for certain depository institution holding companies that are not internationally active. The LCR is designed to ensure that a banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to its expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon. Smaller covered companies (more than $50 billion in assets) such as the Company were required to calculate the LCR monthly beginning January 2016. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve finalized rules that tailor the liquidity requirements based on a company&#8217;s asset size, cross-jurisdictional activity, reliance on short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. In light of the fact that the Company is under $250 billion in assets and has less than $50 billion in short-term wholesale funding, the Company is no longer required to disclose the US LCR. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The NSFR is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon The NSFR requires banks to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to their on- and off-balance sheet activities, thereby reducing the likelihood that disruptions to a bank's regular sources of funding will erode its liquidity in a way that could increase the risk of its failure and potentially lead to broader systemic stress. In May 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule for NSFR applicable to U.S. financial institutions. The proposed rule has not been finalized, and the Company is currently evaluating the impact the proposed rule would have on its financial position, results of operations and disclosures. 

Resolution Planning 

The DFA requires all BHCs and FBOs with assets of $50 billion or more to prepare and regularly update resolution plans. The 165(d) Resolution Plan must assume that the covered company is resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and that no &#8220;extraordinary support&#8221; is received from the U.S. or any other government. The most recent 165(d) Resolution Plan was submitted to the Federal Reserve and FDIC in December 2018. In addition, under amended Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvements Act rules, the IDI resolution plan rule requires that a bank with assets of $50 billion or more develop a plan for its resolution that supports depositors&#8217; rapid access to their insured deposits, maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss realized by creditors in resolution. The most recent IDI resolution plan was submitted to the FDIC in June 2018. SHUSA and SBNA are currently awaiting feedback. 

TLAC 

The TLAC Rule requires certain U.S. organizations to maintain a minimum amount of loss-absorbing instruments, including a minimum amount of unsecured LTD. The TLAC Rule applies to U.S. GSIBs and to IHCs with $50 billion or more in U.S. non-branch assets that are controlled by a global systemically important FBO. The Company is such an IHC. 

Under the TLAC Rule, companies are required to maintain a minimum amount of TLAC, which consists of a minimum amount of LTD and Tier 1 capital. As a result, SHUSA must hold the higher of 18% of its RWAs or 9% of its total consolidated assets in the form of TLAC, of which 6% of its RWAs or 3.5% of total consolidated assets must consist of LTD. In addition, SHUSA must maintain a TLAC buffer composed solely of CET1 capital and will be subject to restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments based on the size of the TLAC buffer it maintains. The TLAC Rule became effective on January 1, 2019. 

Volcker Rule 

The DFA added new Section 13 to the BHCA, which is commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; The Volcker Rule prohibits a &#8220;banking entity&#8221; from engaging in &#8220;proprietary trading&#8221; or engaging in any of the following activities with respect to a Covered Fund: (i) acquiring or retaining any equity, partnership or other ownership interest in the Covered Fund; (ii) controlling the Covered Fund; or (iii) engaging in certain transactions with the fund if the banking entity or any affiliate is an investment adviser or sponsor to the Covered Fund. These prohibitions are subject to certain exemptions for permitted activities. 

Because the term &#8220;banking entity&#8221; includes an IDI, a depository institution holding company and any of their affiliates, the Volcker Rule has sweeping worldwide application and covers entities such as Santander, the Company, and certain of the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries (including the Bank and SC), as well as other Santander subsidiaries in the United States and abroad. 

The Company implemented certain policies and procedures, training programs, recordkeeping, internal controls and other compliance requirements that were necessary to comply with the Volcker Rule. As required by the Volcker Rule, the compliance infrastructure has been tailored to each banking entity based on its size and its level of trading and Covered Fund activities. SHUSA's compliance program includes, among other things, processes for prior approval of new activities and investments permitted under the Volcker Rule, testing and auditing for compliance and a process for attesting annually that the compliance program is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the rule. 

In October 2019, the joint agencies responsible for administering the Volcker Rule finalized revisions to Volcker Rule. The final rule tailors the Volcker Rule&#8217;s compliance requirements to the amount of a firm&#8217;s trading activity, revise the definition of a trading account, clarify certain key provisions in the Volcker Rule, and simplify the information companies are required to provide the banking agencies. The Company is in the process of transitioning to the requirements of this revised rule. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Risk Retention Rule 

In December 2014, the Federal Reserve issued its final credit risk retention rule, which generally requires sponsors of ABS to retain at least five percent of the credit risk of the assets collateralizing ABS. SHUSA, primarily through SC, is an active participant in the structured finance markets and began to comply with the retention requirements effective in December 2016. 

Market Risk Rule 

The market risk rule requires certain national banks to measure and hold risk-based regulatory capital for the market risk of their covered positions. The bank must measure and hold capital for its market risk using its internal-risk based models. The market risk rule outlines quantitative requirements for the bank's internal risk based models, as well as qualitative requirements for the bank's management of market risk. Banks subject to the market risk rule must also measure and hold market risk regulatory capital for the specific risk associated with certain debt and equity positions. 

A bank is subject to the market risk capital rules if its consolidated trading activity, defined as the sum of trading assets and liabilities as reported in its FFIEC 031 and FR Y-9C for the previous quarter, equals the lesser of: (1) 10 percent or more of the bank's total assets as reported in its Call Report and FR Y-9C for the previous quarter, or (2) $1 billion or more. At September 30, 2019, SBNA reported aggregate trading exposure in excess of the market risk threshold, and as a result, both the Company and SBNA began holding the market risk component within RWAs of the risk-based capital ratios, and submitted the FFIEC 102 - Market Risk Regulatory Report beginning for the period ended December 31, 2019. The incorporation of market risk within regulatory capital has resulted in a decrease in the risk-based capital ratios. 

Capital Simplification Rule 

The federal banking agencies adopted a final rule that simplifies for non-advanced approaches banking organizations the generally applicable capital rules and makes a number of technical corrections. Specifically, it reverses the previous transition provision freeze on MSRs and deferred tax assets by modifying the risk-weight from 100% to 250%. The rule will also replace the existing methodology for calculating includible minority interest with a flat 10% limit at each capital level. The increased risk weighting presents an unfavorable decline to the Company's risk-based ratios, but Tier 1 and total capital ratios has improve overall due to the additional minority interest includible under the simplified rule. Adoption of the capital simplification rule was required by the regulatory agencies on April 1, 2020; 

Heightened Standards 

OCC guidelines to strengthen the governance and risk management practices of large financial institutions are commonly referred to as &#8220;heightened standards.&#8221; The heightened standards apply to insured national banks with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets. The heightened standards require covered institutions to establish and adhere to a written risk governance framework to manage and control their risk-taking activities. The heightened standards also provide minimum standards for the institutions&#8217; boards of directors to oversee the risk governance framework. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Depository institutions must remain in compliance with Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve's Regulation W, which governs transactions of the Company's banking subsidiaries with affiliated companies and individuals. Section 23A imposes limits on certain specified &#8220;covered transactions,&#8221; which include loans, lines, and letters of credit to affiliated companies or individuals, and investments in affiliated companies, as well as certain other transactions with affiliated companies and individuals. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited to 10% of a bank&#8217;s capital and surplus for any one affiliate and 20% for all affiliates. Certain covered transactions also must meet collateral requirements that range from 100% to 130% depending on the type of transaction. 

Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act prohibits a depository institution from engaging in certain transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are considered arms'-length. To meet the definition of arm's-length, the terms of the transaction must be the same, or at least as favorable, as those for similar transactions with non-affiliated companies. As a U.S. domiciled subsidiary of a global parent with significant non-bank affiliates, the Company faces elevated compliance risk in this area. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Regulation AB II 

Regulation AB II, among other things, expanded disclosure requirements and modified the offering and shelf registration process for ABS. SC must comply with these rules, which impact all offerings of publicly registered ABS and all reports under the Exchange Act, for outstanding publicly-registered ABS, and affect SC's public securitization platform. 

CRA 

SBNA and BSPR are subject to the requirements of the CRA, which requires the appropriate federal financial supervisory agency to assess an institution's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which it is located. BSPR&#8217;s current CRA rating is &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; and SBNA&#8217;s current CRA rating is "Satisfactory." The OCC takes into account the Bank&#8217;s CRA rating in considering certain regulatory applications the Bank makes, including applications related to establishing and relocating branches, and the Federal Reserve does the same with respect to certain regulatory applications the Company makes. 

On December 12, 2019, the OCC and the FDIC jointly issued the CRA NPR to modernize the regulatory framework implementing the CRA. On May 20, 2020, the OCC issued the CRA Final Rule implementing many of the provisions of the CRA NPR. The CRA NPR generally focuses on clarifying and expanding the activities that qualify for CRA consideration, allowing the OCC to evaluate a bank&#8217;s CRA performance through quantitative measures intended to assess the volume and value of activity, updating how assessment areas are determined to account for institutions such as internet-based banks that receive a substantial portion of their deposits outside physical branch locations, and increasing transparency and timeliness in reporting. In connection with promulgating the CRA Final Rule, the OCC issued a publicly available, non-exhaustive list of activities that would automatically receive CRA consideration. and a process for confirming that particular activities meet the qualifying activities criteria. In addition, the CRA Final Rule allows banks to receive consideration for certain qualifying activities conducted outside their assessment areas. While the CRA Final Rule takes effect on October 1, 2020, SBNA will have until January 1, 2023 to bring its operations into compliance with the rule. Although SBNA will be required to comply with the CRA Final Rule in 2023, the OCC has deferred to a future rulemaking process how to calibrate the key thresholds and benchmarks used in the rule to determine the level of performance necessary to achieve a performance rating. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

On March 21, 2017, SC and the Company entered into a written agreement with the FRB of Boston. Under the terms of that agreement, SC is required to enhance its compliance risk management program, board oversight of risk management and senior management oversight of risk management, and the Company is required to enhance its oversight of SC's management and operations. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act 

Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) to the Exchange Act, an issuer is required to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with individuals or entities designated pursuant to certain Executive Orders. Disclosure is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were conducted in compliance with applicable law. 

The following activities are disclosed in response to Section 13(r) with respect to affiliates of SHUSA within Santander. During the period covered by this annual report: 

&#8226; Santander UK holds three blocked accounts for two customers, with the first customer holding one GBP savings account and one GBP current account and the second customer holding one GBP savings account. Both of the customers, who are resident in the UK, are currently designated by the U.S. under the SDGT sanctions program with accounts blocked since designation. The accounts are dormant. Revenues and profits generated by Santander UK on these accounts in the first half of 2020 were negligible relative to the overall profits of Santander. 

&#8226; Santander UK holds two frozen current accounts for two UK nationals who are designated by the U.S. under the SDGT sanctions program. The accounts held by each customer were blocked immediately following the US designation, and have been frozen since their UK designation and remained frozen throughout the first half of 2020. These accounts are frozen in order to comply with Articles 2, 3 and 7 of Council Regulation (EC) No 881/2002 imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities associated with the Al-Qaeda network, by virtue of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1815. The accounts are in arrears (&#163;1,844.73 in debit combined) and are currently being managed by Santander UK's Collections and Recoveries Department. No revenues or profits were generated by Santander UK on these accounts in the first half of 2020. 

&#8226; Santander. also has certain legacy performance guarantees for the benefit of Bank Sepah and Bank Mellat (stand-by letters of credit to guarantee the obligations - either under tender documents or under contracting agreements - of contractors who participated in public bids in Iran) that were in place prior to April 27, 2007. 

In the aggregate, all of the transactions described above resulted in gross revenues and net profits in the first half of 2020 which were negligible relative to the overall revenues and profits of Santander. Santander has undertaken significant steps to withdraw from the Iranian market, such as closing its representative office in Iran and ceasing all banking activities therein, including correspondent relationships, deposit-taking from Iranian entities and issuing export letters of credit, except for the legacy transactions described above. Santander is not contractually permitted to cancel these arrangements without either (i) paying the guaranteed amount (in the case of the performance guarantees), or (ii) forfeiting the outstanding amounts due to it (in the case of the export credits). As such, Santander intends to continue to provide the guarantees and hold these assets in accordance with company policy and applicable laws. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

This MD&#38;A is based on the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes that have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The significant accounting policies of the Company are described in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Form 10-K as of December 31, 2019, and have been updated as appropriate in Note 1 of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain policies inherently have a greater reliance on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgments and, accordingly, have a greater possibility of producing results that could be materially different than originally reported. Our estimates include consideration of the current uncertainty in the economy and the results may be materially different. Management identified accounting for ACL, estimates of expected residual values of leased vehicles subject to operating leases, accretion of discounts and subvention on RICs, goodwill, fair value measurements and income taxes as the Company's most critical accounting estimates, in that they are important to the portrayal of the Company's financial condition and results and require management&#8217;s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. 

There have been material changes in the Company&#8217;s critical accounting estimates from those disclosed in Item 7 of the Company's 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. These changes are a result of the Company's adoption of the CECL Standard on January 1, 2020. Refer to Note 1, Note 4 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the section captioned "Credit Quality" of this MD&#38;A for detailed discussions around accounting policy, estimation process and assumptions used in determining the ACL. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE-MONTHS AND SIX-MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2020 AND 2019 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change Year To Date Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 1,538,790 &#160; $ 1,621,725 &#160; $ 3,124,766 &#160; $ 3,224,610 &#160; $ (82,935) &#160; (5.1) % $ (99,844) &#160; (3.1) % Credit loss expense (977,373) &#160; (480,632) &#160; (2,162,983) &#160; (1,080,843) &#160; 496,741 &#160; 103.4 % 1,082,140 &#160; 100.1 % Total non-interest income 786,318 &#160; 962,984 &#160; 1,813,478 &#160; 1,858,431 &#160; (176,666) &#160; (18.3) % (44,953) &#160; (2.4) % General, administrative and other expenses (3,429,690) &#160; (1,542,386) &#160; (5,013,491) &#160; (3,084,801) &#160; 1,887,304 &#160; 122.4 % 1,928,690 &#160; 62.5 % Income before income taxes (2,081,955) &#160; 561,691 &#160; (2,238,230) &#160; 917,397 &#160; (2,643,646) &#160; (470.7) % (3,155,627) &#160; (344.0) % Income tax (benefit)/provision (186,151) &#160; 155,326 &#160; (219,512) &#160; 271,540 &#160; (341,477) &#160; (219.8) % (491,052) &#160; (180.8) % Net income $ (1,895,804) &#160; $ 406,365 &#160; $ (2,018,718) &#160; $ 645,857 &#160; $ (2,302,169) &#160; (566.5) % $ (2,664,575) &#160; (412.6) % Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (23,377) &#160; 110,743 &#160; (19,614) &#160; 183,255 &#160; (134,120) &#160; (121.1) % (202,869) &#160; (110.7) % Net income attributable to SHUSA $ (1,872,427) &#160; $ 295,622 &#160; $ (1,999,104) &#160; $ 462,602 &#160; $ (2,168,049) &#160; (733.4) % $ (2,461,706) &#160; (532.1) % 

The Company reported pre-tax losses of $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, respectively, compared to pre-tax income of $561.7 million and $917.4 million for the corresponding periods in 2019. Factors contributing to these changes are discussed further in the sections below. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET / NET INTEREST MARGIN ANALYSIS THREE-MONTH PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2020 AND 2019 2020 (1) 

2019 (1) 

Interest Change due to (dollars in thousands) Average Balance Interest Yield/ 

Rate (2) 

Average Balance Interest Yield/&#8232; Rate (2) 

Increase/(Decrease) Volume Rate EARNING ASSETS &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; INVESTMENTS AND INTEREST EARNING DEPOSITS $ 28,429,283 &#160; $ 88,527 &#160; 1.25 % $ 21,625,019 &#160; $ 140,942 &#160; 2.61 % $ (52,415) &#160; $ 79,896 &#160; $ (132,311) &#160; 

LOANS (3) : 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Commercial loans 34,420,465 &#160; 293,222 &#160; 3.41 % 33,528,570 &#160; 374,001 &#160; 4.46 % (80,779) &#160; 10,291 &#160; (91,070) &#160; Multifamily 8,455,070 &#160; 72,686 &#160; 3.44 % 8,426,590 &#160; 87,957 &#160; 4.18 % (15,271) &#160; 298 &#160; (15,569) &#160; Total commercial loans 42,875,535 &#160; 365,908 &#160; 3.41 % 41,955,160 &#160; 461,958 &#160; 4.40 % (96,050) &#160; 10,589 &#160; (106,639) &#160; Consumer loans: &#160; &#160; Residential mortgages 8,669,723 &#160; 80,253 &#160; 3.70 % 10,350,832 &#160; 104,917 &#160; 4.05 % (24,664) &#160; (16,098) &#160; (8,566) &#160; Home equity loans and lines of credit 4,542,745 &#160; 36,984 &#160; 3.26 % 5,193,036 &#160; 66,927 &#160; 5.16 % (29,943) &#160; (7,600) &#160; (22,343) &#160; Total consumer loans secured by real estate 13,212,468 &#160; 117,237 &#160; 3.55 % 15,543,868 &#160; 171,844 &#160; 4.42 % (54,607) &#160; (23,698) &#160; (30,909) &#160; RICs and auto loans 37,974,160 &#160; 1,251,951 &#160; 13.19 % 31,703,951 &#160; 1,230,059 &#160; 15.52 % 21,892 &#160; 90,874 &#160; (68,982) &#160; Personal unsecured 2,411,976 &#160; 139,204 &#160; 23.09 % 2,475,879 &#160; 164,306 &#160; 26.55 % (25,102) &#160; (4,149) &#160; (20,953) &#160; Other consumer (4) 

282,811 &#160; 4,962 &#160; 7.02 % 387,437 &#160; 6,981 &#160; 7.21 % (2,019) &#160; (1,840) &#160; (179) &#160; Total consumer 53,881,415 &#160; 1,513,354 &#160; 11.23 % 50,111,135 &#160; 1,573,190 &#160; 12.56 % (59,836) &#160; 61,187 &#160; (121,023) &#160; Total loans 96,756,950 &#160; 1,879,262 &#160; 7.77 % 92,066,295 &#160; 2,035,148 &#160; 8.84 % (155,886) &#160; 71,776 &#160; (227,662) &#160; Intercompany investments &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; % &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; % &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; TOTAL EARNING ASSETS 125,186,233 &#160; 1,967,789 &#160; 6.29 % 113,691,314 &#160; 2,176,090 &#160; 7.66 % (208,301) &#160; 151,672 &#160; (359,973) &#160; 

Allowance for loan losses (5) 

(6,620,331) &#160; (3,840,898) &#160; 

Other assets (6) 

35,573,456 &#160; 30,951,435 &#160; TOTAL ASSETS $ 154,139,358 &#160; $ 140,801,851 &#160; INTEREST BEARING FUNDING LIABILITIES &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Deposits and other customer related accounts: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Interest-bearing demand deposits $ 11,810,121 &#160; $ 2,820 &#160; 0.10 % $ 10,813,266 &#160; $ 22,219 &#160; 0.82 % $ (19,399) &#160; $ 2,276 &#160; $ (21,675) &#160; Savings 6,103,704 &#160; 2,429 &#160; 0.16 % 5,870,604 &#160; 3,225 &#160; 0.22 % (796) &#160; 136 &#160; (932) &#160; Money market 29,272,445 &#160; 38,233 &#160; 0.52 % 23,974,690 &#160; 78,429 &#160; 1.31 % (40,196) &#160; 23,245 &#160; (63,441) &#160; Certificates of deposit (&#8220;CDs&#8221;) 6,593,071 &#160; 25,640 &#160; 1.56 % 8,409,139 &#160; 41,272 &#160; 1.96 % (15,632) &#160; (8,036) &#160; (7,596) &#160; TOTAL INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS 53,779,341 &#160; 69,122 &#160; 0.51 % 49,067,699 &#160; 145,145 &#160; 1.18 % (76,023) &#160; 17,621 &#160; (93,644) &#160; BORROWED FUNDS: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Federal Home Loan Bank (&#8220;FHLB&#8221;) advances, federal funds, and repurchase agreements 7,142,297 &#160; 23,333 &#160; 1.31 % 5,183,297 &#160; 36,118 &#160; 2.79 % (12,785) &#160; 31,681 &#160; (44,466) &#160; Other borrowings 44,848,829 &#160; 336,544 &#160; 3.00 % 41,556,272 &#160; 373,102 &#160; 3.59 % (36,558) &#160; 34,032 &#160; (70,590) &#160; 

TOTAL BORROWED FUNDS (7) 

51,991,126 &#160; 359,877 &#160; 2.77 % 46,739,569 &#160; 409,220 &#160; 3.50 % (49,343) &#160; 65,713 &#160; (115,056) &#160; TOTAL INTEREST-BEARING FUNDING LIABILITIES 105,770,467 &#160; 428,999 &#160; 1.62 % 95,807,268 &#160; 554,365 &#160; 2.31 % (125,366) &#160; 83,334 &#160; (208,700) &#160; Noninterest bearing demand deposits 18,309,976 &#160; 14,600,091 &#160; 

Other liabilities (8) 

7,600,050 &#160; 5,753,334 &#160; TOTAL LIABILITIES 131,680,493 &#160; 116,160,693 &#160; STOCKHOLDER&#8217;S EQUITY 22,458,865 &#160; 24,641,158 &#160; TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER&#8217;S EQUITY $ 154,139,358 &#160; $ 140,801,851 &#160; 

NET INTEREST SPREAD (9) 

&#160; &#160; 4.67 % 5.35 % 

NET INTEREST MARGIN (10) 

&#160; &#160; 4.92 % 5.71 % 

NET INTEREST INCOME (11) 

$ 1,538,790 &#160; $ 1,621,725 &#160; 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET / NET INTEREST MARGIN ANALYSIS SIX-MONTH PERIODS ENDED JUNE 30, 2020 AND 2019 2020 (1) 

2019 (1) 

Change due to (dollars in thousands) Average Balance Interest Yield/&#8232; Rate (2) 

Average Balance Interest Yield/&#8232; Rate (2) 

Increase/(Decrease) Volume Rate EARNING ASSETS &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; INVESTMENTS AND INTEREST EARNING DEPOSITS $ 27,162,206 &#160; $ 220,754 &#160; 1.63 % $ 21,149,809 &#160; $ 282,646 &#160; 2.67 % $ (61,892) &#160; $ 167,189 &#160; $ (229,081) &#160; 

LOANS (3) : 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Commercial loans 33,488,826 &#160; 609,168 &#160; 3.64 % 33,193,085 &#160; 734,625 &#160; 4.43 % (125,457) &#160; 6,599 &#160; (132,056) &#160; Multifamily 8,493,807 &#160; 155,893 &#160; 3.67 % 8,362,254 &#160; 171,883 &#160; 4.11 % (15,990) &#160; 2,755 &#160; (18,745) &#160; Total commercial loans 41,982,633 &#160; 765,061 &#160; 3.64 % 41,555,339 &#160; 906,508 &#160; 4.36 % (141,447) &#160; 9,354 &#160; (150,801) &#160; Consumer loans: &#160; &#160; Residential mortgages 8,806,806 &#160; 166,386 &#160; 3.78 % 10,260,834 &#160; 208,998 &#160; 4.07 % (42,612) &#160; (28,354) &#160; (14,258) &#160; Home equity loans and lines of credit 4,597,439 &#160; 87,698 &#160; 3.82 % 5,260,778 &#160; 136,240 &#160; 5.18 % (48,542) &#160; (15,747) &#160; (32,795) &#160; Total consumer loans secured by real estate 13,404,245 &#160; 254,084 &#160; 3.79 % 15,521,612 &#160; 345,238 &#160; 4.45 % (91,154) &#160; (44,101) &#160; (47,053) &#160; RICs and auto loans 37,382,043 &#160; 2,524,460 &#160; 13.51 % 30,891,910 &#160; 2,429,984 &#160; 15.73 % 94,476 &#160; 287,831 &#160; (193,355) &#160; Personal unsecured 2,329,078 &#160; 303,040 &#160; 26.02 % 2,526,182 &#160; 338,195 &#160; 26.78 % (35,155) &#160; (25,779) &#160; (9,376) &#160; Other consumer (4) 

293,972 &#160; 10,365 &#160; 7.05 % 406,783 &#160; 14,561 &#160; 7.16 % (4,196) &#160; (3,976) &#160; (220) &#160; Total consumer 53,409,338 &#160; 3,091,949 &#160; 11.58 % 49,346,487 &#160; 3,127,978 &#160; 12.68 % (36,029) &#160; 213,975 &#160; (250,004) &#160; Total loans 95,391,971 &#160; 3,857,010 &#160; 8.09 % 90,901,826 &#160; 4,034,486 &#160; 8.88 % (177,476) &#160; 223,329 &#160; (400,805) &#160; Intercompany investments &#8212; &#160; &#8212; % &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; % &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; TOTAL EARNING ASSETS 122,554,177 &#160; 4,077,764 &#160; 6.65 % 112,051,635 &#160; 4,317,132 &#160; 7.71 % (239,368) &#160; 390,518 &#160; (629,886) &#160; 

Allowance for loan losses (5) 

(6,324,985) &#160; (3,864,450) &#160; 

Other assets (6) 

34,877,861 &#160; 30,570,529 &#160; TOTAL ASSETS $ 151,107,053 &#160; $ 138,757,714 &#160; INTEREST-BEARING FUNDING LIABILITIES &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Deposits and other customer related accounts: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Interest-bearing demand deposits $ 11,351,363 &#160; $ 19,915 &#160; 0.35 % $ 10,294,922 &#160; $ 39,669 &#160; 0.77 % $ (19,754) &#160; $ 4,577 &#160; $ (24,331) &#160; Savings 5,868,215 &#160; 5,359 &#160; 0.18 % 5,876,398 &#160; 6,668 &#160; 0.23 % (1,309) &#160; (8) &#160; (1,301) &#160; Money market 28,208,387 &#160; 110,301 &#160; 0.78 % 24,204,275 &#160; 152,586 &#160; 1.26 % (42,285) &#160; 32,458 &#160; (74,743) &#160; CDs 7,569,060 &#160; 62,160 &#160; 1.64 % 8,047,101 &#160; 76,510 &#160; 1.90 % (14,350) &#160; (4,344) &#160; (10,006) &#160; TOTAL INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS 52,997,025 &#160; 197,735 &#160; 0.75 % 48,422,696 &#160; 275,433 &#160; 1.14 % (77,698) &#160; 32,683 &#160; (110,381) &#160; BORROWED FUNDS: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; FHLB advances, federal funds, and repurchase agreements 6,963,137 &#160; 58,185 &#160; 1.67 % 4,676,133 &#160; 66,190 &#160; 2.83 % (8,005) &#160; 7,180 &#160; (15,185) &#160; Other borrowings 44,508,110 &#160; 697,078 &#160; 3.13 % 41,081,955 &#160; 750,899 &#160; 3.66 % (53,821) &#160; 73,089 &#160; (126,910) &#160; 

TOTAL BORROWED FUNDS (7) 

51,471,247 &#160; 755,263 &#160; 2.93 % 45,758,088 &#160; 817,089 &#160; 3.57 % (61,826) &#160; 80,269 &#160; (142,095) &#160; TOTAL INTEREST-BEARING FUNDING LIABILITIES 104,468,272 &#160; 952,998 &#160; 1.82 % 94,180,784 &#160; 1,092,522 &#160; 2.32 % (139,524) &#160; 112,952 &#160; (252,476) &#160; Noninterest bearing demand deposits 16,714,359 &#160; 14,449,580 &#160; 

Other liabilities (8) 

7,220,157 &#160; 5,738,427 &#160; TOTAL LIABILITIES 128,402,788 &#160; 114,368,791 &#160; STOCKHOLDER&#8217;S EQUITY 22,704,265 &#160; 24,388,923 &#160; TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER&#8217;S EQUITY $ 151,107,053 &#160; $ 138,757,714 &#160; 

NET INTEREST SPREAD (9) 

&#160; &#160; 4.83 % 5.39 % 

NET INTEREST MARGIN (10) 

&#160; &#160; 5.10 % 5.76 % 

NET INTEREST INCOME (11) 

$ 3,124,766 &#160; $ 3,224,610 &#160; 

(1) Average balances are based on daily averages when available. When daily averages are unavailable, mid-month averages are substituted. 

(2) Yields calculated using taxable equivalent net interest income. 

(3) Interest on loans includes amortization of premiums and discounts on purchased loan portfolios and amortization of deferred loan fees, net of origination costs. Average loan balances includes non-accrual loans and LHFS. 

(4) Other consumer primarily includes RV and marine loans. 

(5) Refer to Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

(6) Other assets primarily includes leases, goodwill and intangibles, premise and equipment, net deferred tax assets, equity method investments, BOLI, accrued interest receivable, derivative assets, miscellaneous receivables, prepaid expenses and MSRs. Refer to Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

(7) Refer to Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

(8) Other liabilities primarily includes accounts payable and accrued expenses, derivative liabilities, net deferred tax liabilities and the unfunded lending commitments liability. 

(9) Represents the difference between the yield on total earning assets and the cost of total funding liabilities. 

(10) Represents annualized, taxable equivalent net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. 

(11) Intercompany investment income is eliminated from this line item. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

NET INTEREST INCOME 

Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage INTEREST INCOME: Interest-earning deposits $ 8,272 &#160; $ 47,899 &#160; $ 40,421 &#160; $ 91,917 &#160; $ (39,627) &#160; (82.7) % $ (51,496) &#160; (56.0) % Investments AFS 51,631 &#160; 71,137 &#160; 121,654 &#160; 145,567 &#160; (19,506) &#160; (27.4) % (23,913) &#160; (16.4) % Investments HTM 23,130 &#160; 15,789 &#160; 46,775 &#160; 33,111 &#160; 7,341 &#160; 46.5 % 13,664 &#160; 41.3 % Other investments 5,494 &#160; 6,117 &#160; 11,904 &#160; 12,051 &#160; (623) &#160; (10.2) % (147) &#160; (1.2) % Total interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits 88,527 &#160; 140,942 &#160; 220,754 &#160; 282,646 &#160; (52,415) &#160; (37.2) % (61,892) &#160; (21.9) % Interest on loans 1,879,262 &#160; 2,035,148 &#160; 3,857,010 &#160; 4,034,486 &#160; (155,886) &#160; (7.7) % (177,476) &#160; (4.4) % Total interest income 1,967,789 &#160; 2,176,090 &#160; 4,077,764 &#160; 4,317,132 &#160; (208,301) &#160; (9.6) % (239,368) &#160; (5.5) % INTEREST EXPENSE: Deposits and customer accounts 69,122 &#160; 145,145 &#160; 197,735 &#160; 275,433 &#160; (76,023) &#160; (52.4) % (77,698) &#160; (28.2) % Borrowings and other debt obligations 359,877 &#160; 409,220 &#160; 755,263 &#160; 817,089 &#160; (49,343) &#160; (12.1) % (61,826) &#160; (7.6) % Total interest expense 428,999 &#160; 554,365 &#160; 952,998 &#160; 1,092,522 &#160; (125,366) &#160; (22.6) % (139,524) &#160; (12.8) % NET INTEREST INCOME $ 1,538,790 &#160; $ 1,621,725 &#160; $ 3,124,766 &#160; $ 3,224,610 &#160; $ (82,935) &#160; (5.1) % $ (99,844) &#160; (3.1) % 

Net interest income decreased $82.9 million and $99.8 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. The most significant factors contributing to this decrease are as follows: 

Interest Income on Investment Securities and Interest-Earning Deposits 

Second Quarter 

Interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits decreased $52.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. The average balances of investment securities and interest-earning deposits for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 was $28.4 billion with an average yield of 1.25%, compared to an average balance of $21.6 billion with an average yield of 2.61% for the corresponding period in 2019. The decrease in interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in the average yield on interest-earning deposits resulting from the Federal Reserve response to the outbreak of COVID-19. 

Year-to-Date 

Interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits decreased $61.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. The average balances of investment securities and interest-earning deposits for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 was $27.2 billion with an average yield of 1.63%, compared to an average balance of $21.1 billion with an average yield of 2.67% for the corresponding period in 2019. The decrease in interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in the average yield on interest-earning deposits resulting from the Federal Reserve response to the outbreak of COVID-19. 

Interest Income on Loans 

Interest income on loans for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, compared to 2019 reflected increases in the average balance for both periods, offset by decreasing rates, particularly during the three and six-months ended June 30, 2020.. 

Interest Expense on Deposits and Related Customer Accounts 

Interest expense on deposits and related customer accounts decreased for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. These decreases were a result of the near zero interest rate environment offset by builds in overall deposits. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Interest Expense on Borrowed Funds 

Second Quarter 

Interest expense on borrowed funds decreased $49.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. This decrease was due to lower interest rates being paid, offset by increased balances during the quarter ended June 30, 2020. The average balance of total borrowings was $52.0 billion with an average cost of 2.77% for the quarter ended June 30, 2020, compared to an average balance of $46.7 billion with an average cost of 3.50% for 2019. The average balance of borrowed funds increased for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to increases in FHLB advances, credit facilities and secured structured financings. 

Year-to-Date 

Interest expense on borrowed funds decreased $61.8 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. This decrease was due to lower interest rates being paid offset by increased balances during the six-month period ended June 30, 2020. The average balance of total borrowings was $51.5 billion with an average cost of 2.93% for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, compared to an average balance of $45.8 billion with an average cost of 3.57% for 2019. The average balance of borrowed funds increased for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the six-month period ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to increases in FHLB advances, credit facilities and secured structured financings. 

CREDIT LOSS EXPENSE 

Credit loss expense was $977.4 million and $2.2 billion for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, respectively, compared to $480.6 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, for the comparative periods in 2019. The increase was primarily due to reserve build during the first and second quarters of 2020 associated with a weaker economic outlook related to COVID-19, partially offset by declines in balances. 

Total charge-offs of $943.2 million and $2.2 billion for three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, respectively, were lower by $301.6 million and $452.0 million from the comparative periods in 2019 as a result of the Company's programs in response to COVID-19. Total recoveries during these periods also decreased. 

NON-INTEREST INCOME 

Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Consumer fees $ 78,145 &#160; $ 107,063 &#160; $ 166,715 &#160; $ 203,123 &#160; $ (28,918) &#160; (27.0) % $ (36,408) &#160; (17.9) % Commercial fees 30,681 &#160; 39,436 &#160; 66,359 &#160; 76,394 &#160; (8,755) &#160; (22.2) % (10,035) &#160; (13.1) % Lease income 755,006 &#160; 705,835 &#160; 1,526,666 &#160; 1,380,720 &#160; 49,171 &#160; 7.0 % 145,946 &#160; 10.6 % Miscellaneous (loss) / income, net (100,030) &#160; 108,271 &#160; 21,943 &#160; 197,815 &#160; (208,301) &#160; (192.4) % (175,872) &#160; (88.9) % Net gains recognized in earnings 22,516 &#160; 2,379 &#160; 31,795 &#160; 379 &#160; 20,137 &#160; 846.4 % 31,416 &#160; 8,289.2 % Total non-interest income $ 786,318 &#160; $ 962,984 &#160; $ 1,813,478 &#160; $ 1,858,431 &#160; $ (176,666) &#160; (18.3) % $ (44,953) &#160; (2.4) % 

Total non-interest income decreased $176.7 million and $45.0 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. These decreases were primarily due to a decrease in miscellaneous income, partially offset by an increase in lease income. 

Consumer fees 

Consumer fees decreased $36.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. This decrease was primarily related to a decrease in consumer deposit fees, related to more few waivers given in 2020 compared to 2019. 

Commercial fees 

Commercial fees consists of deposit overdraft fees, deposit automated teller machine fees, cash management fees, letter of credit fees, and loan syndication fees for commercial accounts. Commercial fees remained relatively stable for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Lease income 

Lease income increased $145.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. This increase was the result of the growth in the Company's lease portfolio, with an average balance of $16.4 billion for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, compared to $14.7 billion for 2019. 

Miscellaneous income/(loss) 

Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Mortgage banking income, net $ 17,038 &#160; $ 13,908 &#160; $ 33,127 &#160; $ 22,723 &#160; $ 3,130 &#160; 22.5 % $ 10,404 &#160; 45.8 % BOLI 13,815 &#160; 16,113 &#160; 28,909 &#160; 30,431 &#160; (2,298) &#160; (14.3) % (1,522) &#160; (5.0) % Capital market revenue 84,184 &#160; 48,442 &#160; 122,468 &#160; 97,964 &#160; 35,742 &#160; 73.8 % 24,504 &#160; 25.0 % Net gain on sale of operating leases 23,145 &#160; 48,479 &#160; 50,096 &#160; 72,490 &#160; (25,334) &#160; (52.3) % (22,394) &#160; (30.9) % Asset and wealth management fees 50,941 &#160; 44,157 &#160; 103,592 &#160; 87,204 &#160; 6,784 &#160; 15.4 % 16,388 &#160; 18.8 % Loss on sale of non-mortgage loans (122,533) &#160; (83,916) &#160; (184,640) &#160; (151,373) &#160; (38,617) &#160; (46.0) % (33,267) &#160; (22.0) % Other miscellaneous (loss) / income, net (166,620) &#160; 21,088 &#160; (131,609) &#160; 38,376 &#160; (187,708) &#160; (890.1) % (169,985) &#160; (442.9) % Total miscellaneous (loss) / income $ (100,030) &#160; $ 108,271 &#160; $ 21,943 &#160; $ 197,815 &#160; $ (208,301) &#160; (192.4) % $ (175,872) &#160; (88.9) % 

Miscellaneous income decreased $208.3 million and $175.9 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. These decreases in both the periods were due to a decrease in other miscellaneous income, an increase in loss on sale of non-mortgage loans and decrease in net gain on sale of operating leases as partially offset by an increase in capital market revenue. 

GENERAL, ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER EXPENSES 

Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Compensation and benefits $ 440,521 &#160; $ 470,247 &#160; $ 929,794 &#160; $ 946,810 &#160; $ (29,726) &#160; (6.3) % $ (17,016) &#160; (1.8) % Occupancy and equipment expenses 164,875 &#160; 142,646 &#160; 311,786 &#160; 285,040 &#160; 22,229 &#160; 15.6 % 26,746 &#160; 9.4 % Technology, outside services, and marketing expense 126,991 &#160; 152,425 &#160; 261,981 &#160; 304,131 &#160; (25,434) &#160; (16.7) % (42,150) &#160; (13.9) % Loan expense 58,423 &#160; 102,784 &#160; 152,344 &#160; 209,500 &#160; (44,361) &#160; (43.2) % (57,156) &#160; (27.3) % Lease expense 641,270 &#160; 513,780 &#160; 1,231,631 &#160; 993,084 &#160; 127,490 &#160; 24.8 % 238,547 &#160; 24.0 % Impairment of goodwill 1,848,228 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1,848,228 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1,848,228 &#160; 100% 1,848,228 &#160; 100% Other expenses 149,382 &#160; 160,504 &#160; 277,727 &#160; 346,236 &#160; (11,122) &#160; (6.9) % (68,509) &#160; (19.8) % Total general, administrative and other expenses $ 3,429,690 &#160; $ 1,542,386 &#160; $ 5,013,491 &#160; $ 3,084,801 &#160; $ 1,887,304 &#160; 122.4 % $ 1,928,690 &#160; 62.5 % 

Total general, administrative and other expenses increased $1.9 billion and $1.9 billion for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding periods of 2019. The most significant factors contributing to these increases were as follows: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Loan expense decreased $44.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. This decrease was primarily the result of lower repossession activity volumes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 

&#8226; Lease expense increased $127.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. This increase was primarily due to more depreciation on a larger lease portfolio and fewer liquidations. 

&#8226; During the second quarter of 2020 the Company took a $1.8 billion goodwill impairment. For additional discussion please see Note 5 and the goodwill section in this MD&#38;A. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Year-to-Date 

In addition to the goodwill impairment charge discussed above, other significant factors included: 

&#8226; Lease expense increased $238.5 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to 2019. This increase was primarily due to more depreciation on a larger lease portfolio and less liquidations. 

&#8226; Other expenses decreased $68.5 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in legal and operational risk expenses. 

INCOME TAX PROVISION 

An income tax benefit of $186.2 million and a provision of $155.3 million were recorded for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. An income tax benefit of $219.5 million and a provision of $271.5 million were recorded for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This resulted in an ETR of 8.9% and 27.7% for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and 9.8% and 29.6% for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

The Company's ETR in future periods will be affected by the results of operations allocated to the various tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates, any change in income tax laws or regulations within those jurisdictions, and interpretations of income tax regulations that differ from the Company's interpretations by tax authorities that examine tax returns filed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 

Refer to Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the year-to-year comparison of the ETR. 

LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS 

General 

The Company's segments at June 30, 2020 and 2019 consisted of CBB, C&#38;I, CRE &#38; VF, CIB and SC. 

Results Summary 

CBB 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 358,430 &#160; $ 374,187 &#160; $ 708,278 &#160; $ 739,164 &#160; $ (15,757) &#160; (4.2) % $ (30,886) &#160; (4.2) % Total non-interest income 71,373 &#160; 86,543 &#160; 154,926 &#160; 161,200 &#160; (15,170) &#160; (17.5) % (6,274) &#160; (3.9) % Credit loss expense 186,714 &#160; 40,215 &#160; 352,184 &#160; 77,215 &#160; 146,499 &#160; 364.3 % 274,969 &#160; 356.1 % Total expenses 1,955,547 &#160; 404,102 &#160; 2,340,820 &#160; 794,073 &#160; 1,551,445 &#160; 383.9 % 1,546,747 &#160; 194.8 % (Loss)/income/ before income taxes (1,712,458) &#160; 16,413 &#160; (1,829,800) &#160; 29,076 &#160; (1,728,871) &#160; (10,533.5) % (1,858,876) &#160; (6,393.2) % Intersegment revenue 541 &#160; 581 &#160; 961 &#160; 976 &#160; (40) &#160; (6.9) % (15) &#160; (1.5) % Total assets 24,052,719 &#160; 22,801,820 &#160; 24,052,719 &#160; 22,801,820 &#160; 1,250,899 &#160; 5.5 % 1,250,899 &#160; 5.5 % 

CBB reported a loss before income taxes of $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, compared to income before income taxes of $16.4 million and $29.1 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2019. Factors contributing to this change were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $146.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 outbreak. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $275.0 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 outbreak. 

C&#38;I Banking 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 70,034 &#160; $ 57,428 &#160; $ 127,853 &#160; $ 110,771 &#160; $ 12,606 &#160; 22.0 % $ 17,082 &#160; 15.4 % Total non-interest income 12,221 &#160; 16,738 &#160; 25,952 &#160; 33,010 &#160; (4,517) &#160; (27.0) % (7,058) &#160; (21.4) % Credit loss expense 36,568 &#160; 6,925 &#160; 71,178 &#160; 15,585 &#160; 29,643 &#160; 428.1 % 55,593 &#160; 356.7 % Total expenses 337,287 &#160; 59,508 &#160; 387,037 &#160; 114,183 &#160; 277,779 &#160; 466.8 % 272,854 &#160; 239.0 % (Loss) / income before income taxes (291,600) &#160; 7,733 &#160; (304,410) &#160; 14,013 &#160; (299,333) &#160; (3,870.9) % (318,423) &#160; (2,272.3) % Intersegment revenue 2,381 &#160; 1,053 &#160; 4,944 &#160; 2,304 &#160; 1,328 &#160; 126.1 % 2,640 &#160; 114.6 % Total assets 7,048,220 &#160; 7,442,924 &#160; 7,048,220 &#160; 7,442,924 &#160; (394,704) &#160; (5.3) % (394,704) &#160; (5.3) % 

C&#38;I reported a loss before income taxes of $291.6 million and $304.4 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, compared to income before income taxes of $7.7 million and $14.0 million for 2019. Factors contributing to these changes were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased 29.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 outbreak. 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased 55.6 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 outbreak. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CRE &#38; VF 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 90,160 &#160; $ 105,148 &#160; $ 191,309 &#160; $ 207,714 &#160; $ (14,988) &#160; (14.3) % $ (16,405) &#160; (7.9) % Total non-interest income 2,157 &#160; 3,194 &#160; 5,350 &#160; 6,433 &#160; (1,037) &#160; (32.5) % (1,083) &#160; (16.8) % Credit loss expense / (Release of) credit loss expense 14,252 &#160; 3,534 &#160; 63,387 &#160; 3,400 &#160; 10,718 &#160; 303.3 % 59,987 &#160; 1,764.3 % Total expenses 29,736 &#160; 32,593 &#160; 58,681 &#160; 62,667 &#160; (2,857) &#160; (8.8) % (3,986) &#160; (6.4) % Income before income taxes 48,329 &#160; 72,215 &#160; 74,591 &#160; 148,080 &#160; (23,886) &#160; (33.1) % (73,489) &#160; (49.6) % Intersegment revenue 1,019 &#160; 1,782 &#160; 2,753 &#160; 3,791 &#160; (763) &#160; (42.8) % (1,038) &#160; (27.4) % Total assets 19,567,288 &#160; 18,809,753 &#160; 19,567,288 &#160; 18,809,753 &#160; 757,535 &#160; 4.0 % 757,535 &#160; 4.0 % 

CRE &#38; VF reported income before income taxes of $48.3 million and $74.6 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to income before income taxes of $72.2 million and $148.1 million for 2019. Factors contributing to these changes were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $10.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $60.0 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

CIB 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 42,457 &#160; $ 40,033 &#160; $ 79,376 &#160; $ 78,068 &#160; $ 2,424 &#160; 6.1 % $ 1,308 &#160; 1.7 % Total non-interest income 90,398 &#160; 54,423 &#160; 140,550 &#160; 106,629 &#160; 35,975 &#160; 66.1 % 33,921 &#160; 31.8 % Credit loss expense 15,314 &#160; (4,188) &#160; 33,455 &#160; (2,746) &#160; 19,502 &#160; 465.7 % 36,201 &#160; 1,318.3 % Total expenses 62,424 &#160; 66,120 &#160; 124,923 &#160; 132,560 &#160; (3,696) &#160; (5.6) % (7,637) &#160; (5.8) % Income before income taxes 55,117 &#160; 32,524 &#160; 61,548 &#160; 54,883 &#160; 22,593 &#160; 69.5 % 6,665 &#160; 12.1 % Intersegment expense (3,941) &#160; (3,401) &#160; (8,658) &#160; (7,071) &#160; (540) &#160; (15.9) % (1,587) &#160; (22.4) % Total assets 12,419,110 &#160; 10,178,060 &#160; 12,419,110 &#160; 10,178,060 &#160; 2,241,050 &#160; 22.0 % 2,241,050 &#160; 22.0 % 

CIB reported income before income taxes of $55.1 million and $61.5 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, compared to income before income taxes of $32.5 million and $54.9 million for 2019. Factors contributing to these changes were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Total non-interest income increased $36.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. The increase is due to higher fee income resulting from the large amounts of debt underwritten during the second quarter of 2020 in response to the COVID-19 related economic uncertainty. 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $19.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Total non-interest income increased $33.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This increase is due to the increase is due to higher fee income resulting from the large amounts of debt underwritten during the second quarter of 2020 in response to the COVID-19 related economic uncertainty. 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $36.2 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

&#8226; Total assets increased $2.2 billion, as a result of more unsettled trades at June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. 

Other 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ (9,330) &#160; $ 30,715 &#160; $ 15,662 &#160; $ 71,904 &#160; $ (40,045) &#160; (130.4) % $ (56,242) &#160; (78.2) % Total non-interest income (49,109) &#160; 114,251 &#160; 65,244 &#160; 206,633 &#160; (163,360) &#160; (143.0) % (141,389) &#160; (68.4) % (Release of Credit loss expense)/Credit loss expense (137,597) &#160; 4,622 &#160; (127,436) &#160; 8,393 &#160; (142,219) &#160; (3,077.0) % (135,829) &#160; (1,618.4) % Total expenses 121,796 &#160; 181,599 &#160; 291,186 &#160; 406,301 &#160; (59,803) &#160; (32.9) % (115,115) &#160; (28.3) % Loss before income taxes (42,638) &#160; (41,255) &#160; (82,844) &#160; (136,157) &#160; (1,383) &#160; (3.4) % 53,313 &#160; 39.2 % Intersegment (expense)/revenue &#8212; &#160; (15) &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 15 &#160; (100.0) % &#8212; &#160; 0% Total assets 41,997,755 &#160; 38,261,781 &#160; 41,997,755 &#160; 38,261,781 &#160; 3,735,974 &#160; 9.8 % 3,735,974 &#160; 9.8 % 

The Other category reported losses before income taxes of $42.6 million and $82.8 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 compared to losses before income taxes of $41.3 million and $136.2 million for the comparative periods of 2019. Factors contributing to these changes were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Net interest income decreased $40.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019, due to lower rates. 

&#8226; Total non-interest income decreased $163.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019, due to fair value adjustments related to the transfer of loans to HFS. 

&#8226; Credit loss expense decreased $142.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019, due to the release of provision for loans moved to HFS during the quarter. 

&#8226; Total expenses decreased $59.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019, due to lower operational risk expenses. 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Net interest income decreased $56.2 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019, due to lower rates. 

&#8226; Total non-interest income decreased $141.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019, due to fair value adjustments related to the transfer of loans to HFS in the second quarter of 2020. 

&#8226; Credit loss expense decreased $135.8 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019, due to the release of provision for loans moved to HFS during the second quarter of 2020. 

&#8226; Total expenses decreased $115.1 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the corresponding period of 2019, due to lower operational risk expenses. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

SC 

&#160; Three-Month Period Ended June 30, Six-Month Period Ended June 30, QTD Change YTD Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Dollar increase/(decrease) Percentage Net interest income $ 984,745 &#160; $ 992,485 &#160; $ 1,996,152 &#160; $ 1,976,050 &#160; $ (7,740) &#160; (0.8) % $ 20,102 &#160; 1.0 % Total non-interest income 667,242 &#160; 713,737 &#160; 1,441,074 &#160; 1,389,291 &#160; (46,495) &#160; (6.5) % 51,783 &#160; 3.7 % Credit loss expense 861,896 &#160; 430,676 &#160; 1,769,783 &#160; 981,555 &#160; 431,220 &#160; 100.1 % 788,228 &#160; 80.3 % Total expenses 919,626 &#160; 795,514 &#160; 1,803,423 &#160; 1,566,487 &#160; 124,112 &#160; 15.6 % 236,936 &#160; 15.1 % (Loss)/Income before income taxes (129,535) &#160; 480,032 &#160; (135,980) &#160; 817,299 &#160; (609,567) &#160; (127.0) % (953,279) &#160; (116.6) % Total assets 47,268,695 &#160; 46,416,093 &#160; 47,268,695 &#160; 46,416,093 &#160; 852,602 &#160; 1.8 % 852,602 &#160; 1.8 % 

SC reported losses before income taxes of $129.5 million and $136.0 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, compared to income before income taxes of $480.0 million and $817.3 million for the three-month and six-month periods ended of 2019. Contributing to these changes were: 

Second Quarter 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $431.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019. This increase was due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

&#8226; Total expenses increased $124.1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 compared to the second quarter of 2019, due to increasing lease expense from the continued growth in the operating lease vehicle portfolio. 

Year-to-Date 

&#8226; Credit loss expense increased $788.2 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the first six months of 2019 due to large reserve builds in response to the economic uncertainty related to COVID-19 outbreak. 

&#8226; Total expenses increased $236.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 compared to the six-month period ended June 30, 2019 due to increasing lease expense from the continued growth in the operating lease vehicle portfolio. 

Refer to the "Economic and Business Environment" section of this MD&#38;A for additional details on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company's current financial and operating status, as well as its future financial and operational planning. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

LOAN PORTFOLIO 

The Company's LHFI portfolio consisted of the following at the dates indicated: 

&#160; 

June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Dollar Increase / (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) (dollars in thousands) Amount Percent Amount Percent Commercial LHFI: CRE $ 7,400,780 &#160; 8.1 % $ 8,468,023 &#160; 9.1 % $ (1,067,243) &#160; (12.6) % C&#38;I 17,664,463 &#160; 19.3 % 16,534,694 &#160; 17.8 % 1,129,769 &#160; 6.8 % Multifamily 8,562,825 &#160; 9.4 % 8,641,204 &#160; 9.3 % (78,379) &#160; (0.9) % Other commercial 7,191,574 &#160; 7.9 % 7,390,795 &#160; 8.2 % (199,221) &#160; (2.7) % 

Total commercial loans (1) 

40,819,642 &#160; 44.7 % 41,034,716 &#160; 44.4 % (215,074) &#160; (0.5) % Consumer loans secured by real estate: Residential mortgages 7,443,130 &#160; 8.2 % 8,835,702 &#160; 9.5 % (1,392,572) &#160; (15.8) % Home equity loans and lines of credit 4,514,680 &#160; 4.9 % 4,770,344 &#160; 5.1 % (255,664) &#160; (5.4) % Total consumer loans secured by real estate 11,957,810 &#160; 13.1 % 13,606,046 &#160; 14.6 % (1,648,236) &#160; (12.1) % Consumer loans not secured by real estate: RICs and auto loans 37,365,398 &#160; 40.9 % 36,456,747 &#160; 39.3 % 908,651 &#160; 2.5 % Personal unsecured loans 881,244 &#160; 1.0 % 1,291,547 &#160; 1.4 % (410,303) &#160; (31.8) % Other consumer 269,737 &#160; 0.3 % 316,384 &#160; 0.3 % (46,647) &#160; (14.7) % Total consumer loans 50,474,189 &#160; 55.3 % 51,670,724 &#160; 55.6 % (1,196,535) &#160; (2.3) % Total LHFI $ 91,293,831 &#160; 100.0 % $ 92,705,440 &#160; 100.0 % (1,411,609) &#160; (1.5) % Total LHFI with: Fixed $ 61,109,094 &#160; 66.9 % $ 61,775,942 &#160; 66.6 % (666,848) &#160; (1.1) % Variable 30,184,737 &#160; 33.1 % 30,929,498 &#160; 33.4 % (744,761) &#160; (2.4) % Total LHFI $ 91,293,831 &#160; 100.0 % $ 92,705,440 &#160; 100.0 % (1,411,609) &#160; (1.5) % 

(1) As of June 30, 2020, the Company had $397.6 million of commercial loans that were denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. 

Commercial 

Commercial loans decreased approximately $215.1 million, or 0.5%, from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020. This decrease was comprised of decreases in CRE loans of $1.1 billion, other commercial loans of $199.2 million, and multifamily loans of $78.4 million, offset by an increase in C&#38;I loans of $1.1 billion. This decrease in s reflective of the re-classification of BSPR loans, largely in the CRE portfolio, as held for sale as of June 30, 2020, offset by originations of C&#38;I loans, including PPP loans. 

At June 30, 2020, Maturing (in thousands) In One Year Or Less One to Five Years After Five Years Total (1) 

CRE loans $ 2,176,822 &#160; $ 5,265,125 &#160; $ 1,063,042 &#160; $ 8,504,989 &#160; C&#38;I and other commercial 11,330,849 &#160; 12,254,287 &#160; 1,873,937 &#160; 25,459,073 &#160; Multifamily loans 947,686 &#160; 5,080,677 &#160; 2,580,990 &#160; 8,609,353 &#160; Total $ 14,455,357 &#160; $ 22,600,089 &#160; $ 5,517,969 &#160; $ 42,573,415 &#160; Loans with: Fixed rates $ 4,585,773 &#160; $ 10,039,913 &#160; $ 3,171,429 &#160; $ 17,797,115 &#160; Variable rates 9,869,584 &#160; 12,560,176 &#160; 2,346,540 &#160; 24,776,300 &#160; Total $ 14,455,357 &#160; $ 22,600,089 &#160; $ 5,517,969 &#160; $ 42,573,415 &#160; 

(1) Includes LHFS. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Consumer Loans Secured By Real Estate 

Consumer loans secured by real estate decreased $1.6 billion, or 12.1%, from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020. This decrease was comprised of decreases in the residential mortgage portfolio of $1.4 billion, which is partially attributable to the classification of BSPR's residential mortgage portfolio as held for sale, and home equity loans and lines of credit portfolio of $255.7 million. 

Consumer Loans Not Secured By Real Estate 

RICs and auto loans 

RICs and auto loans increased $908.7 million, or 2.5%, from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020. The increase in the RIC and auto loan portfolio was primarily due to an increase in originations, net of securitizations offset by loans moved to held for sale. RICs are collateralized by vehicle titles, and the lender has the right to repossess the vehicle in the event the consumer defaults on the payment terms of the contract. Most of the Company's RICs HFI are pledged against warehouse lines or securitization bonds. Refer to further discussion of these in Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

As of June 30, 2020, 66.7% of the Company's RIC and auto loan portfolio balance was comprised of nonprime loans (defined by the Company as customers with a FICO score of below 640) with customers who did not qualify for conventional consumer finance products as a result of, among other things, a lack of or adverse credit history, low income levels and/or the inability to provide adequate down payments. This also includes 11.7% of loans for which no FICO score is available or legacy portfolios for which FICO is not considered in the ALLL model. While underwriting guidelines are designed to establish that the customer would be a reasonable credit risk, nonprime loans will nonetheless experience higher default rates than a portfolio of obligations of prime customers. Additionally, higher unemployment rates, higher gasoline prices, unstable real estate values, re-sets of adjustable rate mortgages to higher interest rates, the general availability of consumer credit, and other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could lead to an increase in delinquencies, defaults, and repossessions, as well as decreased consumer demand for used automobiles and other consumer products, weaken collateral values and increase losses in the event of default. Because SC's historical focus for such credit has been predominantly on nonprime consumers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions, and losses on these loans could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. 

The Company's automated originations process for these credits reflects a disciplined approach to credit risk management to mitigate the risks of nonprime customers. The Company's robust historical data on both organically originated and acquired loans provides it with the ability to perform advanced loss forecasting. Each applicant is automatically assigned a proprietary custom score using information such as FICO scores, DTI ratios, LTV ratios, and over 30 other predictive factors, placing the applicant in one of 100 pricing tiers. The pricing in each tier is continuously monitored and adjusted to reflect market and risk trends. In addition to the Company's automated process, it maintains a team of underwriters for manual review, consideration of exceptions, and review of deal structures with dealers. 

At June 30, 2020, a typical RIC was originated with an average annual percentage rate of 13.3% and was purchased from the dealer at a premium of 0.8%. All of the Company's RICs and auto loans are fixed-rate loans. 

The Company records an ALLL to cover its estimate of inherent losses on its RICs incurred as of the balance sheet date. 

Personal unsecured and other consumer loans 

Personal unsecured and other consumer loans decreased from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020 by $457.0 million. 

As a result of the strategic evaluation of SC's personal lending portfolio, in the third quarter of 2015, SC began reviewing strategic alternatives for exiting its personal loan portfolios. SC's other significant personal lending relationship is with Bluestem. SC continues to perform in accordance with the terms and operative provisions of the agreements under which it is obligated to purchase personal revolving loans originated by Bluestem for a term ending in 2020, or 2022 if extended at Bluestem's option. The Bluestem loan portfolio is carried as held-for-sale in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, the Company has recorded lower-of-cost-or-market adjustments on this portfolio, and there may be further such adjustments required in future period financial statements. Management is currently evaluating alternatives for the Bluestem portfolio. As of June 30, 2020, SC's personal unsecured portfolio was held-for-sale and thus does not have a related allowance. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS 

The following table presents the composition of non-performing assets at the dates indicated: 

Period Ended Change (dollars in thousands) June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Dollar Percentage Non-accrual loans: &#160; &#160; Commercial: &#160; &#160; CRE $ 110,814 &#160; $ 83,117 &#160; $ 27,697 &#160; 33.3 % C&#38;I 92,895 &#160; 153,428 &#160; (60,533) &#160; (39.5) % Multifamily 60,188 &#160; 5,112 &#160; 55,076 &#160; 1,077.4 % Other commercial 16,440 &#160; 31,987 &#160; (15,547) &#160; (48.6) % Total commercial loans 280,337 &#160; 273,644 &#160; 6,693 &#160; 2.4 % Consumer loans secured by real estate: &#160; &#160; Residential mortgages 147,931 &#160; 134,957 &#160; 12,974 &#160; 9.6 % Home equity loans and lines of credit 110,917 &#160; 107,289 &#160; 3,628 &#160; 3.4 % Consumer loans not secured by real estate: RICs and auto loans 903,290 &#160; 1,643,459 &#160; (740,169) &#160; (45.0) % Personal unsecured loans 2,801 &#160; 2,212 &#160; 589 &#160; 26.6 % Other consumer 10,161 &#160; 11,491 &#160; (1,330) &#160; (11.6) % Total consumer loans 1,175,100 &#160; 1,899,408 &#160; (724,308) &#160; (38.1) % Total non-accrual loans 1,455,437 &#160; 2,173,052 &#160; (717,615) &#160; (33.0) % Other real estate owned 53,258 &#160; 66,828 &#160; (13,570) &#160; (20.3) % Repossessed vehicles 131,309 &#160; 212,966 &#160; (81,657) &#160; (38.3) % Other repossessed assets 2,268 &#160; 4,218 &#160; (1,950) &#160; (46.2) % Total OREO and other repossessed assets 186,835 &#160; 284,012 &#160; (97,177) &#160; (34.2) % Total non-performing assets $ 1,642,272 &#160; $ 2,457,064 &#160; $ (814,792) &#160; (33.2) % Past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal and accruing interest $ 67,152 &#160; $ 93,102 &#160; $ (25,950) &#160; (27.9)% 

Annualized net loan charge-offs to average loans (1) 

2.5 % 2.8 % n/a n/a Non-performing assets as a percentage of total assets 1.1 % 1.6 % n/a n/a NPLs as a percentage of total loans 1.5 % 2.3 % n/a n/a ALLL as a percentage of total NPLs 488.7 % 167.8 % n/a n/a 

(1) Annualized net loan charge-offs are based on year-to-date charge-offs. 

The increase in the ALLL as a percentage of total NPLs is a result of the adoption of the CECL standard effective January 1, 2020. 

Potential problem loans are loans not currently classified as NPLs for which management has doubts about the borrowers&#8217; ability to comply with the present repayment terms. These assets are principally loans delinquent for more than 30 days but less than 90 days. Potential proble m commercial loans totaled approximately $233.7 million and $179.9 million at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. This increase was due to loans to three large borrowers within the CRE, Multifamily, and other Commercial portfolios. 

Potential problem consumer loans amounted to $2.1 billion and $4.7 billion at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Management has included these loans in its evaluation of the Company's ACL and reserved for them during the respective periods. 

Non-performing assets decreased t o $1.6 billion, or 1.1% of total assets, at June 30, 2020, compared to $2.5 billion, or 1.6% of total assets, at December 31, 2019, primarily attributable to a decrease in in consumer RIC NPLs due to seasonality as consumers pay off outstanding balances. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Commercial 

Commercial NPLs increased $6.7 million from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020. Commercial NPLs accounted for 0.7% of commercial LHFI at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The increase in commercial NPLs was comprised of decreases of $60.5 million in C&#38;I offset by increases in $55.1 million in the Multifamily portfolio and $27.7 million in the CRE portfolio. 

Consumer Loans Not Secured by Real Estate 

RICs and amortizing personal loans are classified as non-performing when they are more than 60 DPD (i.e., 61 or more DPD) with respect to principal or interest. Except for loans accounted for using the FVO, at the time a loan is placed on non-performing status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against interest income. When an account is 60 days or less past due, it is returned to performing status and the Company returns to accruing interest on the loan. The accrual of interest on revolving personal loans continues until the loan is charged off. 

RIC TDRs are placed on non-accrual status when the account becomes past due more than 60 days. For loans in non-accrual status, interest income is recognized on a cash basis. For loans on non-accrual status, the accrual of interest is resumed if a delinquent account subsequently becomes 60 days or less past due. NPLs in the RIC and auto loan portfolio decreased by $740.2 million from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020. Non-performing RICs and auto loans accounted for 2.4% and 4.5% of total RICs and auto loans at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

Consumer Loans Secured by Real Estate 

The following table shows NPLs compared to total loans outstanding for the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios as of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively: 

June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands) Residential mortgages Home equity loans and lines of credit Residential mortgages Home equity loans and lines of credit NPLs - HFI $ 130,182 &#160; $ 110,917 &#160; $ 134,957 &#160; $ 107,289 &#160; Total LHFI 7,443,130 &#160; 4,514,680 &#160; 8,835,702 &#160; 4,770,344 &#160; NPLs as a percentage of total LHFI 1.7 % 2.5 % 1.5 % 2.2 % 

The NPL ratio is usually higher for the Company's residential mortgage loan portfolio compared to the home equity loans and lines of credit portfolio due to a number of factors, including the prolonged workout and foreclosure resolution processes for residential mortgage loans, differences in risk profiles, and mortgage loans located outside the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic United States. Foreclosures on consumer loans secured by real estate were $241.1 million or 51.2% of non-performing consumer loans secured by real estate at June 30, 2020 , compared to $242.2 million and 45.9% of consumer loans secured by real estate at December 31, 2019 . 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Delinquencies 

The Company generally considers an account delinquent when an obligor fails to pay substantially all (defined as 90%) of the scheduled payment by the due date. 

Overall, total delinquencies decreased by $2.7 billion, or 47.1%, from December 31, 2019 to June 30, 2020, most significantly within the RICs and auto loan portfolio, which decreased $2.6 billion. Delinquent balances and nonaccrual balances overall were lower as of June 30, 2020 primarily due to the large number of deferrals granted to borrowers impacted by COVID-19. 

TDRs 

TDRs are loans that have been modified as the Company has agreed to make certain concessions to both meet the needs of customers and maximize its ultimate recovery on the loans. TDRs occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is expected to experience, financial difficulties and the loan is modified with terms that would otherwise not be granted to the borrower. The types of concessions granted are generally interest rate reductions, limitations on accrued interest charged, term extensions, and deferments of principal. 

TDRs are generally placed on nonaccrual status upon modification, unless the loan was performing immediately prior to modification. For most portfolios, TDRs may return to accrual status after a sustained period of repayment performance, as long as the Company believes the principal and interest of the restructured loan will be paid in full. RIC TDRs are placed on nonaccrual status when the Company believes repayment under the revised terms is not reasonably assured, and at the latest, when the account becomes more than 60 DPD. RIC TDRs are considered for return to accrual when the account becomes 60 days or less past due. To the extent the TDR is determined to be collateral-dependent and the source of repayment depends on the operation of the collateral, the loan may be returned to accrual status based on the foregoing parameters. To the extent the TDR is determined to be collateral-dependent and the source of repayment depends on disposal of the collateral, the loan may not be returned to accrual status. 

The following table summarizes TDRs at the dates indicated: 

As of June 30, 2020 (in thousands) Commercial % Consumer Loans Secured by Real Estate % RICs and Auto Loans % Other Consumer % Total TDRs Performing $ 37,655 &#160; 29.6 % $ 80,691 &#160; 46.5 % $ 3,693,898 &#160; 93.3 % $ 38,606 &#160; 96.6 % $ 3,850,850 &#160; Non-performing 89,570 &#160; 70.4 % 92,946 &#160; 53.5 % 265,364 &#160; 6.7 % 1,365 &#160; 3.4 % 449,245 &#160; Total $ 127,225 &#160; 100.0 % $ 173,637 &#160; 100.0 % $ 3,959,262 &#160; 100.0 % $ 39,971 &#160; 100.0 % $ 4,300,095 &#160; % of loan portfolio 0.3 % n/a 1.5 % n/a 10.6 % n/a 3.5 % n/a 4.7 % (1) Excludes LHFS. As of December 31, 2019 (in thousands) Commercial % Consumer Loans Secured by Real Estate % RICs and Auto Loans % Other Consumer % Total TDRs Performing $ 64,538 &#160; 49.5 % $ 182,105 &#160; 67.8 % $ 3,332,246 &#160; 86.6 % $ 67,465 &#160; 91.7 % $ 3,646,354 &#160; Non-performing 65,741 &#160; 50.5 % 86,335 &#160; 32.2 % 515,573 &#160; 13.4 % 6,128 &#160; 8.3 % 673,777 &#160; Total $ 130,279 &#160; 100.0 % $ 268,440 &#160; 100.0 % $ 3,847,819 &#160; 100.0 % $ 73,593 &#160; 100.0 % $ 4,320,131 &#160; % of loan portfolio 0.3 % n/a 2.0 % n/a 10.6 % n/a 4.6 % n/a 4.7 % 

(1) Excludes LHFS. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following table provides a summary of TDR activity: 

Six-Month Period Ended June 30, 2020 Six-Month Period Ended June 30, 2019 (in thousands) RICs and Auto Loans All Other Loans (1) 

RICs and Auto Loans All Other Loans (1) 

TDRs, beginning of period $ 3,847,819 &#160; $ 472,312 &#160; $ 5,251,769 &#160; $ 670,584 &#160; 

New TDRs (1) 

1,158,527 &#160; 100,752 &#160; 606,660 &#160; 48,891 &#160; Charged-Off TDRs (428,630) &#160; (3,028) &#160; (737,515) &#160; (3,992) &#160; 

Sold TDRs (2) 

(26,381) &#160; (163,210) &#160; &#8212; &#160; (3,384) &#160; Payments on TDRs (592,073) &#160; (65,993) &#160; (678,842) &#160; (65,082) &#160; TDRs, end of period $ 3,959,262 &#160; $ 340,833 &#160; $ 4,442,072 &#160; $ 647,017 &#160; 

(1) New TDRs includes drawdowns on lines of credit that have previously been classified as TDRs. 

(2) Sold TDRs for All Other Loans includes TDR loans transferred to HFS during the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 of $162.5M. 

The decrease in total delinquent TDRs is primarily due to the significant increase in deferrals provided to borrowers in response to COVID-19 impacts. 

On March 22, 2020, the federal banking agencies issued an &#8220;Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus.&#8221; This guidance encourages financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers that may be unable to meet their contractual obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. The guidance explains that, in consultation with the FASB staff, the federal banking agencies do not regard short-term modifications (e.g., six months) made on a good faith basis to borrowers who were impacted by COVID-19 and who were less than 30 days past due as of the implementation date of a relief program as TDRs. 

In March 2020, the Company began actively working with its borrowers impacted by COVID-19 and provided loan modification programs to mitigate the adverse effects of COVID-19. These programs revised the practices noted above by 1) increasing the maximum number of extensions from eight to twelve, 2) allowing more than one deferral every six months and 3) removing the requirement that a requisite number of months have passed since origination. 

The predominant program offering is a deferral of payments to the end of the loan term and waiver of late charges of up to three months for RICs and other consumer loans and lines of credit and a forbearance for mortgage customers of up to three months. For credit cards, we offer a temporary payment reduction program for a period of up to three months. We experienced a sharp increase in requests for relief related to COVID-19 nationwide and a significant number of such extensions have been granted. As of June 30, 2020, the Bank had granted approximately 40,000 concessions and held approximately $6.4 billion of loans on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets that have been granted a concession in connection with COVID-19. Additionally, SC has granted over 730,000 loan extensions since the implementation of the program in March 2020. As of June 30, 2020, approximately one-third or approximately $11.0 billion of SC's RIC customers have received a COVID-19 deferral. 

At the time a deferral is granted, all delinquent amounts may be deferred or paid. This may result in the classification of the loan as current and therefore not considered a delinquent account. However, there are other instances when a deferral is granted but the loan is not brought completely current, such as when the account days past due is greater than the deferment period granted. Such accounts are aged based on the timely payment of future installments in the same manner as any other account. Historically, the majority of deferrals on RICs are approved for borrowers who are either 31-60 or 61-90 days delinquent, however a majority of these COVID-19 specific extensions have been granted to borrowers who were less than 30 days past due at the implementation date of the Company's COVID-19 modification program. 

The Company also revised its servicing practices related to extensions offered to customers on its RICs. In accordance with the Company&#8217;s policies and guidelines, the Company may offer extensions (deferrals) to consumers on its RICs, whereby the consumer is allowed to move a maximum of three payments per event to the end of the loan. The Company&#8217;s policies and guidelines limit the frequency of each new deferral that may be granted to one deferral every six months, regardless of the length of any prior deferral. The maximum number of lifetime months extended for all automobile RICs was eight, while some marine and recreational vehicle contracts had a maximum of twelve months extended to reflect their longer term. Additionally, the Company generally limits the granting of deferrals on new accounts until a requisite number of payments has been received. During the deferral period, the Company continues to accrue and collect interest on the loan in accordance with the terms of the deferral agreement. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The Company evaluates the results of its deferral strategies based upon the amount of cash installments that are collected on accounts after they have been deferred compared to the extent to which the collateral underlying the deferred accounts has depreciated over the same period of time. Based on this evaluation, the Company believes that payment deferrals granted according to its policies and guidelines are an effective portfolio management technique and result in higher ultimate cash collections from the portfolio. 

Changes in deferral levels do not have a direct impact on the ultimate amount of consumer finance receivables charged off. However, the timing of a charge-off may be affected if the previously deferred account ultimately results in a charge-off. To the extent deferrals impact the ultimate timing of when an account is charged off, historical charge-off ratios, loss confirmation periods, and cash flow forecasts used in the determination of the adequacy of the ALLL for loans classified as TDRs are also impacted. Increased use of deferrals may result in a lengthening of the loss confirmation period, which would increase expectations of credit losses inherent in the portfolio and therefore increase the ALLL and related credit loss expense. Changes in these ratios and periods are considered in determining the appropriate level of the ALLL and related credit loss expense. For loans that are classified as TDRs, the Company generally compares the present value of expected cash flows to the outstanding recorded investment of TDRs to determine the amount of allowance and related credit loss expense that should be recorded. For loans that are considered collateral-dependent, such as certain bankruptcy modifications, impairment is measured based on the fair value of the collateral, less its estimated costs to sell. 

CREDIT RISK 

The risk inherent in the Company&#8217;s loan and lease portfolios is driven by credit and collateral quality, and is affected by borrower-specific and economy-wide facts such as changes in employment, GDP, HPI, CRE price index, used car prices, and other factors. In general, there is an inverse relationship between credit quality of transactions and projections of impairment losses so that transactions with better credit quality require a lower expected loss. The Company manages this risk through its underwriting, pricing and credit approval guidelines and servicing policies and practices, as well as geographic and other concentration limits. 

The Company's ACL is principally based on various models subject to the Company's Model Risk Management Framework. New models are approved by the Company's Model Risk Management Committee. Models, inputs and documentation are further reviewed and validated at least annually, and the Company completes a detailed variance analysis of historical model projections against actual observed results on a quarterly basis. Required actions resulting from the Company's analysis, if necessary, are governed by its ACL Committee. 

Management uses the qualitative framework to exercise judgment about matters that are inherently uncertain and that are not considered by the quantitative framework. These adjustments are documented and reviewed through the Company&#8217;s risk management processes. Furthermore, management reviews, updates, and validates its process and loss assumptions on a periodic basis. This process involves an analysis of data integrity, review of loss and credit trends, a retrospective evaluation of actual loss information to loss forecasts, and other analyses. 

ACL levels are collectively reviewed for adequacy and approved quarterly. Required actions resulting from the Company's analysis, if necessary, are governed by its ACL Committee. The ACL levels are approved by the Board-level committees quarterly. 

ACL 

Changes to the ACL are discussed in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 

The reserve for unfunded lending commitments increased from $91.8 million at December 31, 2019 to $122.7 million at June 30, 2020. The increase of the reserve for unfunded included an increase from the adoption of the CECL standard of $10.4 million while the remainder was primarily related to changes in the business environment resulting from COVID-19. The net impact of business as usual change in the reserve for unfunded lending commitments to the overall ACL was immaterial. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

INVESTMENT SECURITIES 

Investment securities consist primarily of U.S. Treasuries, MBS, ABS and FHLB and FRB stock. MBS consist of pass-through, CMOs and adjustable rate mortgages issued by federal agencies. The Company&#8217;s MBS are either guaranteed as to principal and interest by the issuer or have ratings of &#8220;AAA&#8221; by S&#38;P and Moody&#8217;s at the date of issuance. The Company&#8217;s AFS investment strategy is to purchase liquid fixed-rate and floating-rate investments to manage the Company's liquidity position and interest rate risk adequately. 

Total investment securities AFS decreased $2.3 billion to $12.0 billion at June 30, 2020, compared to $14.3 billion at December 31, 2019. During the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, the composition of the Company's investment portfolio changed due to a decrease in U.S. Treasury securities, partially offset with an increase in MBS. U.S. Treasuries decreased by $2.6 billion primarily due to investment sales and maturities. MBS increased by $343.7 million primarily due to investment purchases and an increase in unrealized gains, partially offset by investment sales, maturities and principal paydowns. For additional information with respect to the Company&#8217;s investment securities, see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Debt securities for which the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity are classified as HTM securities. HTM securities are reported at cost and adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount. Total investment securities HTM were $5.2 billion at June 30, 2020. The Company had 118 investment securities classified as HTM as of June 30, 2020. 

Total gross unrealized gain/(loss) position on investment securities AFS increased by $245.5 million during the six-month period ended June 30, 2020. This increase was primarily related to an increase in unrealized gains of $233.2 million on MBS, primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. 

The average life of the AFS investment portfolio (excluding certain ABS) at June 30, 2020 was approximately 3.73 years. The average effective duration of the investment portfolio (excluding certain ABS) at June 30, 2020 was approximately 2.52 years. The actual maturities of MBS AFS will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. 

The following table presents the fair value of investment securities by obligor at the dates indicated: 

(in thousands) June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Investment securities AFS: U.S. Treasury securities and government agencies $ 6,816,817 &#160; $ 9,735,337 &#160; FNMA and FHLMC securities 5,019,350 &#160; 4,326,299 &#160; State and municipal securities 5 &#160; 9 &#160; 

Other securities (1) 

211,751 &#160; 278,113 &#160; Total investment securities AFS 12,047,923 &#160; 14,339,758 &#160; Investment securities HTM: U.S. government agencies 5,229,562 &#160; 3,938,797 &#160; 

Total investment securities HTM (2) 

5,229,562 &#160; 3,938,797 &#160; Other investments 1,728,065 &#160; 995,680 &#160; Total investment portfolio $ 19,005,550 &#160; $ 19,274,235 &#160; 

(1) Other securities primarily include corporate debt securities and ABS. 

(2) HTM securities are measured and presented at amortized cost. 

The following table presents the securities of single issuers (other than obligations of the United States and its political subdivisions, agencies, and corporations) having an aggregate book value in excess of 10% of the Company's stockholder's equity that were held by the Company at June 30, 2020: 

June 30, 2020 (in thousands) Amortized Cost Fair Value FNMA $ 3,007,134 &#160; $ 3,058,839 &#160; 

GNMA (1) 

10,363,228 &#160; 10,686,047 &#160; Total $ 13,370,362 &#160; $ 13,744,886 &#160; 

(1) Includes U.S. government agency MBS. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

GOODWILL 

The Company records the excess of the cost of acquired entities over the fair value of identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired less the fair value of liabilities assumed as goodwill. Consistent with ASC 350, the Company does not amortize goodwill, and reviews the goodwill recorded for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the potential for goodwill impairment. At June 30, 2020, goodwill totaled $2.6 billion and represented 1.7% of total assets and 12.8% of total stockholder's equity. The following table shows goodwill by reporting units at June 30, 2020: 

(in thousands) CBB C&#38;I CRE &#38; VF CIB SC Total Goodwill at December 31, 2019 $ 1,880,304 &#160; $ 317,924 &#160; $ 1,095,071 &#160; $ 131,130 &#160; $ 1,019,960 &#160; $ 4,444,389 &#160; Impairment during the period (1,557,384) &#160; (290,844) &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; $ (1,848,228) &#160; Goodwill at June 30, 2020 $ 322,920 &#160; $ 27,080 &#160; $ 1,095,071 &#160; $ 131,130 &#160; $ 1,019,960 &#160; $ 2,596,161 &#160; 

The Company conducted its annual goodwill impairment tests as of October 1, 2019 using generally accepted valuation methods. 

The Company completes a quarterly review for impairment indicators over each of its reporting units, which includes consideration of economic and organizational factors that could impact the fair value of the Company&#8217;s reporting units. As disclosed in footnote 5 to these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company determined that goodwill triggering events occurred in the CBB, C&#38;I and CRE &#38; VF reporting units during the second quarter of 2020. 

For the CBB reporting unit&#8217;s second quarter valuation analysis, a weighting of 25% to the market approach and 75% to the income approach was applied. For the income approach, the Company selected a discount rate of 10.0%, which represents management&#8217;s best estimate of the rate of return expected by market participants and aligns with the reporting unit's cost of equity at the time of the analysis. The Company increased a component of the discount rate to reflect the risk and uncertainty related to the reporting unit&#8217;s projected cash flows, which were adjusted downward from the Company&#8217;s year-end financial plan as a result of the estimated economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A long-term growth rate of 2.50 %, down from 3.0% at March 31, 2020, was applied in determining the terminal value. For the market approach, the Company selected a 30% control premium based on the Company&#8217;s review of transactions observable in the marketplace that were determined to be comparable. The equity value as a multiple of tangible book value of 0.9x was selected based on publicly traded peers of the reporting unit. The results of the fair value analysis did not exceed the carrying value for the CBB reporting unit indicating that the reporting unit was considered to be impaired at June 30, 2020. As a result, the Company recorded a $1.6 billion impairment charge relate to the CBB reporting unit. 

For the C&#38;I reporting unit&#8217;s second quarter valuation analysis, a weighting of 25% to the market approach and 75% to the income approach was applied. For the income approach, the Company selected a discount rate of 11.4%, which represents management&#8217;s best estimate of the rate of return expected by market participants and aligns with the reporting unit's cost of equity at the time of the analysis. The Company increased a component of the discount rate to reflect the risk and uncertainty related to the reporting unit&#8217;s projected cash flows, which were adjusted downward from the Company&#8217;s year-end financial plan as a result of the estimated economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A long-term growth rate of 2.50%, down from 4.0% at October 1, 2019, was applied in determining the terminal value. For the market approach, the Company selected a 30% control premium based on the Company&#8217;s review of transactions observable in the marketplace that were determined to be comparable. The equity value as a multiple of tangible book value of 0.8x was selected based on publicly traded peers of the reporting unit. The results of the fair value analysis did not exceed the carrying value for the C&#38;I reporting unit indicating that the reporting unit was considered to be impaired at June 30, 2020. As a result, the Company recorded a $0.3 billion impairment charge relate to the C&#38;I reporting unit. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

For the CRE &#38; VF reporting unit&#8217;s second quarter valuation analysis, a weighting of 25% to the market approach and 75% to the income approach was applied. For the income approach, the Company selected a discount rate of 11.6%, which represents management&#8217;s best estimate of the rate of return expected by market participants and aligns with the reporting unit's cost of equity at the time of the analysis. The Company increased a component of the discount rate to reflect the risk and uncertainty related to the reporting unit&#8217;s projected cash flows, which were adjusted downward from the Company&#8217;s year-end financial plan as a result of the estimated economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A long-term growth rate of 2.50%, down from 3.0% at October 1, 2019, was applied in determining the terminal value. For the market approach, the Company selected a 30% control premium based on the Company&#8217;s review of transactions observable in the marketplace that were determined to be comparable. The equity value as a multiple of tangible book value of 1.2x was selected based on publicly traded peers of the reporting unit. The results of the fair value analysis exceeded the carrying value for the CRE &#38; VF reporting unit by less than 5%, indicating that the reporting unit was not considered to be impaired at June 30, 2020. 

The Company will continue monitoring changes to all reporting units for potential indicators for the remainder of 2020. There is an increased risk that further impairment or impairment within additional reporting units, up to the amount of remaining goodwill, could be recognized based on continued or additional declines in the market in future periods. 

DEFERRED TAXES AND OTHER TAX ACTIVITY 

The Company had a net deferred tax liability balance of $101.0 million at June 30, 2020 (consisting of a deferred tax asset balance of $766.4 million and a deferred tax liability balance of $867.4 million), compared to a net deferred tax liability balance of $1.0 billion at December 31, 2019 (consisting of a deferred tax asset balance of $503.7 million and a deferred tax liability balance of $1.5 billion). The $916.4 million decrease in net deferred liability for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to the adoption of the CECL Standard during the first quarter of 2020. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

See further discussion of the Company's off-balance sheet arrangements in Note 7 and Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this MD&#38;A. 

For a discussion of the status of litigation with which the Company is involved with the IRS, please refer to Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL 

The Company's capital priorities are to support client growth and business investment while maintaining appropriate capital in light of economic uncertainty and the Basel III framework. 

The Company is subject to the regulations of certain federal, state, and foreign agencies and undergoes periodic examinations by those regulatory authorities. At June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, based on the Bank&#8217;s capital calculations, the Bank was considered well-capitalized under the applicable capital framework. In addition, the Company's capital levels as of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, based on the Company&#8217;s capital calculations, exceeded the required capital ratios for BHCs. 

For a discussion of Basel III, which became effective for SHUSA and the Bank on January 1, 2015, including the standardized approach and related future changes to the minimum U.S. regulatory capital ratios, see the section captioned "Regulatory Matters" in this MD&#38;A. 

Federal banking laws, regulations and policies also limit the Bank's ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to the Company. The Bank must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend or make any other capital distribution if, after such dividend or distribution: (1) the Bank's total distributions to SHUSA within that calendar year would exceed 100% of its net income during the year plus retained net income for the prior two years, (2) the Bank would not meet capital levels imposed by the OCC in connection with any order, or (3) the Bank is not adequately capitalized at the time. The OCC's prior approval would also be required if the Bank were notified by the OCC that it is a problem institution or in troubled condition. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Any dividend declared and paid or return of capital has the effect of reducing capital ratios. During the six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the Company paid cash dividends of $125.0 million, and $150.0 million, respectively, to its common stock shareholder. 

The following schedule summarizes the actual capital balances of SHUSA and the Bank at June 30, 2020: 

SHUSA June 30, 2020 Well-capitalized Requirement (1) 

Minimum Requirement (1) 

CET1 capital ratio 14.33 % 6.50 % 4.50 % Tier 1 capital ratio 15.71 % 8.00 % 6.00 % Total capital ratio 17.11 % 10.00 % 8.00 % Leverage ratio 12.45 % 5.00 % 4.00 % 

Bank June 30, 2020 Well-capitalized Requirement (1) 

Minimum Requirement (1) 

CET1 capital ratio 15.16 % 6.50 % 4.50 % Tier 1 capital ratio 15.16 % 8.00 % 6.00 % Total capital ratio 16.41 % 10.00 % 8.00 % Leverage ratio 11.75 % 5.00 % 4.00 % 

(1) Capital ratios through March 31, 2020 calculated under the U.S. Basel III framework on a transitional basis. Capital ratios starting in the first quarter of 2020 calculated under CECL transition provisions permitted by the CARES Act 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Overall 

The Company continues to maintain strong liquidity. Liquidity represents the ability of the Company to obtain cost-effective funding to meet the needs of customers as well as the Company's financial obligations. Factors that impact the liquidity position of the Company include loan origination volumes, loan prepayment rates, the maturity structure of existing loans, core deposit growth levels, CD maturity structure and retention, the Company's credit ratings, investment portfolio cash flows, the maturity structure of the Company's wholesale funding, and other factors. These risks are monitored and managed centrally. The Company's Asset/Liability Committee reviews and approves the Company's liquidity policy and guidelines on a regular basis. This process includes reviewing all available wholesale liquidity sources. The Company also forecasts future liquidity needs and develops strategies to ensure adequate liquidity is available at all times. SHUSA conducts monthly liquidity stress test analyses to manage its liquidity under a variety of scenarios, all of which demonstrate that the Company has ample liquidity to meet its short-term and long-term cash requirements. 

Further changes to the credit ratings of SHUSA, Santander and its affiliates or the Kingdom of Spain could have a material adverse effect on SHUSA's business, including its liquidity and capital resources. The credit ratings of SHUSA have changed in the past and may change in the future, which could impact its cost of and access to sources of financing and liquidity. Any reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of SHUSA would increase its borrowing costs and require it to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, limit its access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements. See further discussion on the impacts of credit ratings actions in the "Economic and Business Environment" section of this MD&#38;A. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Sources of Liquidity 

Company and Bank 

The Company and the Bank have several sources of funding to meet liquidity requirements, including the Bank's core deposit base, liquid investment securities portfolio, ability to acquire large deposits, FHLB borrowings, wholesale deposit purchases, and federal funds purchased, as well as through securitizations in the ABS market and committed credit lines from third-party banks and Santander. In addition, the Company has other sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements such as dividends and returns of investments from its subsidiaries, short-term investments held by non-bank affiliates, and access to the capital markets. 

SC 

SC requires a significant amount of liquidity to originate and acquire loans and leases and to service debt. SC funds its operations through its lending relationships with 13 third-party banks, SHUSA, and through securitizations in the ABS market and flow agreements. SC seeks to issue debt that appropriately matches the cash flows of the assets that it originates. SC has more than $4.8 billion of stockholders&#8217; equity that supports its access to the securitization markets, credit facilities, and flow agreements. 

During the second quarter ended June 30, 2020, SC completed on-balance sheet funding transactions totaling approximately $2.9 billion, including: 

&#8226; securitizations on its DRIVE, deeper subprime platform, for approximately $0.9 billion; 

&#8226; private amortizing lease facilities for approximately $1.0 billion; and 

&#8226; securitizations on its SDART platform for approximately $1.0 billion. 

SC also completed approximately $0.5 billion in asset sales to third parties during the quarter. 

For information regarding SC's debt, see Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

IHC 

On June 6, 2017, SIS entered into a revolving subordinated loan agreement with SHUSA not to exceed $290.0 million for a two-year term to mature in 2019. On October 16, 2018, the revolving loan agreement was increased to $895.0 million. 

As needed, SIS will draw down from another subordinated loan with Santander in order to enable SIS to underwrite certain large transactions in excess of the subordinated loan described above. At June 30, 2020, there was no outstanding balance on the subordinated loan. 

BSI's primary sources of liquidity are from customer deposits and deposits from affiliated banks. 

BSPR's primary sources of liquidity include core deposits, FHLB borrowings, wholesale and/or brokered deposits, and liquid investment securities. 

Institutional borrowings 

The Company regularly projects its funding needs under various stress scenarios, and maintains contingency plans consistent with the Company&#8217;s access to diversified sources of contingent funding. The Company maintains a substantial level of total available liquidity in the form of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet funding sources. These include cash, unencumbered liquid assets, and capacity to borrow at the FHLB and the FRB&#8217;s discount window. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Available Liquidity 

As of June 30, 2020, the Bank had approximately $20.4 billion in committed liquidity from the FHLB and the FRB. Of this amount, $14.7 billion was unused and therefore provides additional borrowing capacity and liquidity for the Company. At June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, liquid assets (cash and cash equivalents and LHFS) and securities AFS exclusive of securities pledged as collateral) totaled approximately $18.9 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively. These amounts represented 28.2% and 24.3% of total deposits at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. As of June 30, 2020, the Bank, BSI and BSPR had $1.1 billion, $852.4 million, and $1.9 billion, respectively, in cash held at the FRB. Management believes that the Company has ample liquidity to fund its operations. 

BSPR has $540.6 million in committed liquidity from the FHLB, all of which was unused as of June 30, 2020, as well as $1.2 billion in liquid assets aside from cash unused as of June 30, 2020. 

Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 

Six-Month Period Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 2,378,828 &#160; $ 2,982,302 &#160; Net cash flows from investing activities (2,759,935) &#160; (8,208,309) &#160; Net cash flows from financing activities 5,129,827 &#160; 5,940,980 &#160; 

Cash flows from operating activities 

Net cash flow from operating activities was $2.4 billion for the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, which was primarily comprised of $674.8 million in proceeds from sales of LHFS, $1.5 billion in depreciation, amortization and accretion, $2.2 billion of credit loss expense, and $1.8 billion from impairment of goodwill, partially offset by a net loss of $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion of originations of LHFS, net of repayments. 

Net cash flow from operating activities was $3.0 billion for the six-month period ended June 30, 2019, which was primarily comprised of net income of $645.9 million, $614.8 million in proceeds from sales of LHFS, $1.1 billion in depreciation, amortization and accretion, and $1.1 billion of credit loss expense, partially offset by $568.6 million of originations of LHFS, net of repayments. 

Cash flows from investing activities 

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, net cash flow from investing activities was $(2.8) billion, primarily due to $3.0 billion in normal loan activity, $3.7 billion of purchases of investment securities AFS, $3.0 billion in operating lease purchases and originations, and $1.5 billion of purchases of HTM investment securities, partially offset by $6.4 billion of AFS investment securities sales, maturities and prepayments, $1.8 billion in proceeds from sales and terminations of operating leases, and $570.5 million in proceeds from sales of LHFI. 

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2019, net cash flow from investing activities was $(8.2) billion, primarily due to $5.4 billion in normal loan activity, $2.2 billion of purchases of investment securities AFS, and $4.5 billion in operating lease purchases and originations, partially offset by $1.8 billion of AFS investment securities sales, maturities and prepayments, $602.3 million in proceeds from sales of LHFI, and $1.8 billion in proceeds from sales and terminations of operating leases. 

Cash flows from financing activities 

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, net cash flow from financing activities was $5.1 billion, which was primarily due to a $6.6 billion increase in deposits, partially offset by a decrease in net borrowing activity of $810.8 million, $125.0 million in dividends paid on common stock, and $546.8 million in stock repurchases attributable to NCI. 

Net cash flow from financing activities for the six-month period ended June 30, 2019 was $5.9 billion, which was primarily due to an increase in net borrowing activity of $3.9 billion and a $2.2 billion increase in deposits, partially offset by $150.0 million in dividends paid on common stock and $104.6 million in stock repurchases attributable to NCI. 

See the SCF for further details on the Company's sources and uses of cash. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Credit Facilities 

Third-Party Revolving Credit Facilities 

Warehouse Lines 

SC has one credit facility with eight banks providing an aggregate commitment of $3.5 billion for the exclusive use of providing short-term liquidity needs to support Chrysler Finance lease financing. As of June 30, 2020, there was an outstanding balance of approximately $0.8 billion on this facility in the aggregate. The facility requires reduced advance rates in the event of delinquency, credit loss, or residual loss ratios, as well as other metrics exceeding specified thresholds. 

SC has eight credit facilities with eleven banks providing an aggregate commitment of $8.0 billion for the exclusive use of providing short-term liquidity needs to support core and Chrysler Capital loan financing. As of June 30, 2020, there was an outstanding balance of approximately $2.8 billion on these facilities in the aggregate. These facilities reduced advance rates in the event of delinquency, credit loss, as well as various other metrics exceeding specific thresholds. 

Repurchase Agreements 

SC also obtains financing through investment management or repurchase agreements under which it pledges retained subordinate bonds on its own securitizations as collateral for repurchase agreements with various borrowers and at renewable terms ranging up to 365 days. As of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, there were outstanding balances of $297.9 million and $422.3 million, respectively, under these repurchase agreements. 

SHUSA and Santander Lending to SC 

The Company provides SC with $3.0 billion of committed revolving credit that can be drawn on an unsecured basis. The Company also provides SC with $7.2 billion of term promissory notes with maturities ranging from October 2020 to June 2025. These loans eliminate in the consolidation of SHUSA. Santander provides SC with $2.0 billion of unsecured financing maturing June 2022. 

Secured Structured Financings 

SC's secured structured financings primarily consist of both public, SEC-registered securitizations, as well as private securitizations under Rule 144A of the Securities Act, and privately issues amortizing notes. SC has on-balance sheet securitizations outstanding in the market with a cumulative ABS balance of approximately $27.0 billion. 

Flow Agreements 

In addition to SC's credit facilities and secured structured financings, SC has a flow agreement in place with a third party for charged-off assets. Loans and leases sold under these flow agreements are not on SC's balance sheet, but provide a stable stream of servicing fee income and may also provide a gain or loss on sale. SC continues to actively seek additional flow agreements. 

Off-Balance Sheet Financing 

Beginning in 2017, SC had the option to sell a contractually determined amount of eligible prime loans to Santander through securitization platforms. As all of the notes and residual interests in the securitizations are acquired by Santander, SC recorded these transactions as true sales of the RICs securitized, and removed the sold assets from its consolidated balance sheets. Beginning in 2018, this program was replaced with a new program with SBNA, whereby SC has agreed to provide SBNA with origination support services in connection with the processing, underwriting, and purchasing of retail loans, primarily from FCA dealers, all of which are serviced by SC. 

SC also continues to periodically execute securitizations under Rule 144A of the Securities Act. After retaining the required credit risk retention via a 5% vertical interest, SC transfers all remaining notes and residual interests in these securitizations to third parties. SC subsequently records these transactions as true sales of the RICs securitized, and removes the sold assets from its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Uses of Liquidity 

The Company uses liquidity for debt service and repayment of borrowings, as well as for funding loan commitments and satisfying deposit withdrawal requests. SIS uses liquidity primarily to support underwriting transactions.The primary use of liquidity for BSI is to meet customer liquidity requirements, such as maturing deposits, investment activities, funds transfers, and payment of operating expenses. BSPR uses liquidity for funding loan commitments and satisfying deposit withdrawal requests. 

At June 30, 2020, the Company's liquidity to meet debt payments, debt service and debt maturities was in excess of 12 months. 

Dividends, Contributions and Stock Issuances 

As of June 30, 2020, the Company had 530,391,043 shares of common stock outstanding. During the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020, the Company paid dividends of zero and $125.0 million, respectively, to its sole shareholder, Santander. 

SC paid a dividend of $0.22 per share in February 2020 and a dividend of $0.22 per share in May 2020. SC received written notification, on July 30, 2020, from the Federal Reserve that the Federal Reserve has approved the Company's request for a dispensation from the prohibition on stock repurchases and restricting the payment of dividends in the Federal Reserve's interim capital preservation rule issued on June 25, 2020. On July 31, 2020, SC&#8217;s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per share of SC Common Stock payable to shareholders of record as of August 13, 2020. This dividend will be payable on August 24, 2020. SC has paid a total of $145.3 million in dividends through June 30, 2020, of which $37.2 million has been paid to NCI and $108.1 million has been paid to the Company, which eliminates in the consolidated results of the Company. 

In June 2019, SC announced that the SC Board of Directors had authorized purchases by SC of up to $1.1 billion, excluding commissions, of outstanding SC Common Stock effective from the third quarter of 2019 through the end of the second quarter of 2020. 

Below are the details of SC's tender offer and other share repurchase programs for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019: 

Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 June 30, 2019 June 30, 2020 June 30, 2019 

Tender offer: (1) 

Number of shares purchased &#8212; &#8212; 17,514,707 &#8212; Average price per share $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; $ 26.00 &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; 

Cost of shares purchased (2) 

$ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; $ 455,382 &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; Other share repurchases: Number of shares purchased 4,911,300 3,749,692 5,757,761 4,715,122 Average price per share $ 17.08 &#160; $ 23.16 &#160; $ 16.60 &#160; $ 22.18 &#160; 

Cost of shares purchased (2) 

$ 83,890 &#160; $ 86,826 &#160; $ 95,590 &#160; $ 104,587 &#160; Total number of shares purchased 4,911,300 3,749,692 23,272,468 4,715,122 Average price per share $ 17.08 &#160; $ 23.16 &#160; $ 23.67 &#160; $ 22.18 &#160; 

Total cost of shares purchased (2) 

$ 83,890 &#160; $ 86,826 &#160; $ 550,972 &#160; $ 104,587 &#160; 

(1) During the three months ended March 31, 2020, SC purchased shares of SC Common Stock through a tender offer. 

(2) Cost of shares exclude commissions 

During the six-month period ended June 30, 2020, BSI declared and paid $7.5 million in dividends to SHUSA, which eliminated in consolidation. 

On August 10, 2020, SC substantively exhausted the amount of shares it was permitted to repurchase under the Exception, has acquired an aggregate of 9.58 million of its shares in a combination of open market and privately negotiated repurchases since July 31, 2020, and expects to acquire an immaterial number of shares remaining under the Exception. As a result of these repurchases, SHUSA now owns approximately 80.25% of SC. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS 

The Company enters into contractual obligations in the normal course of business as a source of funds for its asset growth and asset/liability management and to meet required capital needs. These obligations require the Company to make cash payments over time as detailed in the table below. 

&#160; Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year Over 1 year to 3 years Over 3 years to 5 years Over 5 years Payments due for contractual obligations: 

FHLB advances (1) 

$ 5,421,308 &#160; $ 4,568,032 &#160; $ 853,276 &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; Notes payable - revolving facilities 3,942,486 &#160; 670,056 &#160; 3,272,430 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Notes payable - secured structured financings 27,559,987 &#160; 328,787 &#160; 8,772,383 &#160; 11,487,763 &#160; 6,971,054 &#160; 

Other debt obligations (1) (2) 

17,436,998 &#160; 1,923,546 &#160; 8,290,836 &#160; 3,861,978 &#160; 3,360,638 &#160; 

CDs (1) 

5,591,518 &#160; 4,531,068 &#160; 984,767 &#160; 70,179 &#160; 5,504 &#160; Non-qualified pension and post-retirement benefits 124,840 &#160; 13,376 &#160; 26,860 &#160; 26,996 &#160; 57,608 &#160; 

Operating leases (3) 

737,358 &#160; 142,709 &#160; 241,643 &#160; 182,368 &#160; 170,638 &#160; Total contractual cash obligations $ 60,814,495 &#160; $ 12,177,574 &#160; $ 22,442,195 &#160; $ 15,629,284 &#160; $ 10,565,442 &#160; Other commitments: Commitments to extend credit $ 32,068,222 &#160; $ 7,037,523 &#160; $ 6,134,731 &#160; $ 6,087,607 &#160; $ 12,808,361 &#160; Letters of credit 1,653,301 &#160; 1,130,463 &#160; 259,419 &#160; 227,907 &#160; 35,512 &#160; Total Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments $ 94,536,018 &#160; $ 20,345,560 &#160; $ 28,836,345 &#160; $ 21,944,798 &#160; $ 23,409,315 &#160; 

(1) Includes interest on both fixed and variable rate obligations. The interest associated with variable rate obligations is based on interest rates in effect at June 30, 2020. The contractual amounts to be paid on variable rate obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates. Future changes in market interest rates could materially affect the contractual amounts to be paid. 

(2) Includes all carrying value adjustments, such as unamortized premiums and discounts and hedge basis adjustments. 

(3) Does not include future expected sublease income or interest of $71.2 million. 

Excluded from the above table are deposits of $68.4 billion that are due on demand by customers. 

The Company is a party to financial instruments and other arrangements with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers and manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. See further discussion on these risks in Note 11 and Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT 

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest rate risk arises primarily through the Company&#8217;s traditional business activities of extending loans and accepting deposits. Many factors, including economic and financial conditions, movements in market interest rates, and consumer preferences, affect the spread between interest earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities. Interest rate risk is managed by the Company's Treasury group and measured by its Market Risk Department, with oversight by the Asset/Liability Committee. In managing interest rate risk, the Company seeks to minimize the variability of net interest income across various likely scenarios, while at the same time maximizing net interest income and the net interest margin. To achieve these objectives, the Treasury group works closely with each business line in the Company. The Treasury group also uses various other tools to manage interest rate risk, including wholesale funding maturity targeting, investment portfolio purchase strategies, asset securitizations/sales, and financial derivatives. 

Interest rate risk focuses on managing four elements of risk associated with interest rates: basis risk, repricing risk, yield curve risk and option risk. Basis risk stems from rate index timing differences with rate changes, such as differences in the extent of changes in Federal funds rates compared with the three-month LIBOR. Repricing risk stems from the different timing of contractual repricing, such as one-month versus three-month reset dates, as well as the related maturities. Yield curve risk stems from the impact on earnings and market value resulting from different shapes and levels of yield curves. Option risk stems from prepayment or early withdrawal risk embedded in various products. These four elements of risk are analyzed through a combination of net interest income and balance sheet valuation simulations, shocks to those simulations, and scenario and market value analyses, and the subsequent results are reviewed by management. Numerous assumptions are made to produce these analyses, including assumptions about new business volumes, loan and investment prepayment rates, deposit flows, interest rate curves, economic conditions and competitor pricing. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Net Interest Income Simulation Analysis 

The Company utilizes a variety of measurement techniques to evaluate the impact of interest rate risk, including simulating the impact of changing interest rates on expected future interest income and interest expense, to estimate the Company's net interest income sensitivity. This simulation is run monthly and includes various scenarios that help management understand the potential risks in the Company's net interest income sensitivity. These scenarios include both parallel and non-parallel rate shocks as well as other scenarios that are consistent with quantifying the four elements of risk described above. This information is used to develop proactive strategies to ensure that the Company&#8217;s risk position remains within SHUSA Board of Directors-approved limits so that future earnings are not significantly adversely affected by future interest rates. 

The table below reflects the estimated sensitivity to the Company&#8217;s net interest income based on interest rate changes at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019: 

The following estimated percentage increase/(decrease) to net interest income would result If interest rates changed in parallel by the amounts below June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Down 100 basis points (0.65) % (1.12) % Up 100 basis points 1.91 % 1.31 % Up 200 basis points 3.68 % 2.56 % 

MVE Analysis 

The Company also evaluates the impact of interest rate risk by utilizing MVE modeling. This analysis measures the present value of all estimated future cash flows of the Company over the estimated remaining life of the balance sheet. MVE is calculated as the difference between the market value of assets and liabilities. The MVE calculation utilizes only the current balance sheet, and therefore does not factor in any future changes in balance sheet size, balance sheet mix, yield curve relationships or product spreads, which may mitigate the impact of any interest rate changes. 

Management examines the effect of interest rate changes on MVE. The sensitivity of MVE to changes in interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate risk, and highlights the potential capital at risk due to adverse changes in market interest rates. The following table discloses the estimated sensitivity to the Company&#8217;s MVE at June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019. 

The following estimated percentage increase/(decrease) to MVE would result If interest rates changed in parallel by the amounts below June 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Down 100 basis points (5.59) % (3.01) % Up 100 basis points 0.71 % (0.49) % Up 200 basis points (0.83) % (3.17) % 

As of June 30, 2020, the Company&#8217;s profile reflected a decrease of MVE of 5.59% for downward parallel interest rate shocks of 100 basis points and an increase of 0.71 % for upward parallel interest rate shocks of 100 basis points. The asymmetrical sensitivity between up 100 and down 100 shock is due to the negative convexity as a result of the prepayment option embedded in mortgage-related products, the impact of which is not fully offset by the behavior of the funding base (largely NMDs). 

In downward parallel interest rate shocks, mortgage-related products&#8217; prepayments increase, their duration decreases and their market value appreciation is therefore limited. At the same time, with deposit rates remaining at comparatively low levels, the Company cannot effectively transfer interest rate declines to its NMD customers. For upward parallel interest rate shocks, extension risk weighs on a sizable portion of the Company&#8217;s mortgage-related products, which are predominantly long-term and fixed-rate; and for larger shocks, the loss in market value is not offset by the change in NMD. 

Limitations of Interest Rate Risk Analyses 

Since the assumptions used are inherently uncertain, the Company cannot predict precisely the effect of higher or lower interest rates on net interest income or MVE. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, the difference between actual experience and the assumed volume, characteristics of new business, behavior of existing positions, and changes in market conditions and management strategies, among other factors. 

Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Uses of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks 

To mitigate interest rate risk and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange, equity and credit risks, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce the effects that changes in interest rates may have on net income, the fair value of assets and liabilities, and cash flows. 

Through the Company&#8217;s capital markets and mortgage banking activities, it is subject to price risk. The Company employs various tools to measure and manage price risk in its portfolios. In addition, SHUSA's Board of Directors has established certain limits relative to positions and activities. The level of price risk exposure at any point in time depends on the market environment and expectations of future price and market movements, and will vary from period to period. 

Management uses derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate movements on the fair value of certain liabilities, assets and highly probable forecasted cash flows. These instruments primarily include interest rate swaps that have underlying interest rates based on key benchmark indices and forward sale or purchase commitments. The nature and volume of the derivative instruments used to manage interest rate risk depend on the level and type of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and the risk management strategies for the current and anticipated interest rate environments. 

The Company's derivatives portfolio includes mortgage banking interest rate lock commitments, forward sale commitments and interest rate swaps. As part of its overall business strategy, the Bank originates residential mortgages. It sells a portion of this production to the FHLMC, the FNMA, and private investors. The Company uses forward sales as a means of hedging against the economic impact of changes in interest rates on the mortgages that are originated for sale and on interest rate lock commitments. 

The Company typically retains the servicing rights related to residential mortgage loans that are sold. The majority of the Company's residential MSRs are accounted for at fair value. As deemed appropriate, the Company economically hedges MSRs, using interest rate swaps and forward contracts to purchase MBS. For additional information on MSRs, see Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot and forward contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement date. Exposure to gains and losses on these contracts increase or decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate. 

The Company also utilizes forward contracts to manage market risk associated with certain expected investment securities sales and equity options, which manage its market risk associated with certain customer deposit products. 

For additional information on foreign exchange contracts, derivatives and hedging activities, see Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

