 ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS 

The Company is subject to a number of risks potentially impacting its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow that are set forth under Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors, in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.In addition to the risk factors disclosed in that Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, the Com pany is subject to risks related to the COVID-19 outbreak, discussed further below. 

Our adoption of the new standard on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments and its resulting impact on our ACL and impairments may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. 

The CECL Standard replaces the incurred loss impairment framework in current GAAP with one that reflects expected credit losses over the full expected life of financial assets and commitments, and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information, including estimation of future expected changes in macroeconomic conditions. Additionally, the standard changes the accounting framework for PCD HTM debt securities and loans, and requires measurement of AFS debt securities using an allowance instead of reducing the carrying amount as under the previous OTTI framework. 

The Company adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method for all financial assets measured at amortized cost and net investment in leases. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2020 are presented under ASC 326, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with previously applicable GAAP. 

Management's evaluation takes into consideration the risks in the loan portfolio, past loan and lease loss experience, specific loans with loss potential, geographic and industry concentrations, delinquency trends, economic forecasts and other relevant factors in accordance with GAAP and based on regulatory requirements. While management uses the best information available to make such evaluations, future adjustments to the ACL may be necessary if conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the evaluations. Future reserves may be different due to changes in macroeconomic conditions. Provisions for credit losses are charged to Credit loss expense in amounts sufficient to maintain the ACL at levels considered adequate to cover ECL in the Company&#8217;s HFI loan portfolios. 

The process for determining our ACL is complex, and we may from time to time make changes to our process for determining our ACL. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review our ACL, as well as our methodology for calculating our ACL, and may require an increase in the credit loss expense or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Changes that we make to enhance our process for determining our ACL may lead to an increase in our ACL. Any increase in our ACL will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on us. Material changes to our methodology for determining our allowance for loan losses could result in the need to restate our financial statements or fines, penalties, potential regulatory action and damage to our reputation. 

The current outbreak COVID-19, has materially impacted our business, and the continuance of this pandemic or any future outbreak of any other highly contagious diseases or other public health emergency, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 

COVID-19 was first reported in China in December 2019 and has now spread throughout the world, including in the United States. The outbreak has been declared a public health emergency of international concern and a pandemic by the World Health Organization, and the President of the United States has made a declaration that the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States constitutes a national emergency. As of the date hereof, a significant number of countries and the majority of state governments have also made emergency declarations related to the outbreak, and have attempted to slow community spread of the virus by providing social distancing guidelines, issuing stay-at-home orders and mandating the closure of certain non-essential businesses. 

The actions taken by authorities, however, may not be sufficient to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Further, these actions are not always coordinated or consistent across jurisdictions but, in general, have been rapidly expanding in scope and intensity and have caused economic hardship in the jurisdictions in which they have been implemented. For example, in many jurisdictions, businesses have been required to temporarily close or restrict their operations. Further, even for businesses that have remained open, consumer demand has deteriorated rapidly. As a result, we have recently experienced a significant decline in our origination of loans and leases. This decline in volume may be exacerbated because, for example, FCA announced in March 2020 that it has suspended production of new vehicles at certain facilities across Europe and North America, which may reduce the availability of new vehicles for FCA dealers after dealerships re-open or consumer demand increases. 

Closures and disruptions to businesses in the United States have led to negative effects on our customers. Similar to many other financial institutions, we have taken and will continue to take measures to mitigate our customers&#8217; COVID- related economic challenges. In March 2020, we announced that we were providing additional support to customers, employees, and communities during the COVID-19 pandemic and revised our servicing practices to increase the maximum number of permitted monthly payment extensions, grant waivers for late charges and provide lease extensions. Unlike the regional impact of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, the COVID-19 outbreak is impacting customers nationwide and is expected to have a materially more significant impact on the performance of our loan and auto lease portfolios than even the most severe historical natural disaster. We have experienced a sharp increase in requests for extensions and modifications related to COVID-19 nationwide, and a significant number of such extensions and modifications have been granted. Further, we have temporarily suspended - and may continue to temporarily suspend - involuntary repossessions, although we may elect to re-initiate involuntary repossessions at any time. These customer support programs may negatively impact our financial performance and other results of operations in the near term and, if the COVID-19 pandemic leads us to conduct such activities on a large scale for a specific period of time, the number of customers experiencing hardship related directly or indirectly to the outbreak of COVID-19 increases or if our customer support programs are not effective in mitigating the effect of COVID-19 on our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected . 

Further, government and regulatory authorities could also enact laws, regulations, executive orders and other guidance that allow customers to forego making scheduled payments for some period of time, require modifications to receivables (e.g., waiving accrued interest), preclude creditors from exercising certain rights or taking certain actions with respect to collateral, including repossession or liquidation of the collateral, or mandate limited operations or temporary closures of the Company or our vendors as &#8220;non-essential businesses&#8221; or otherwise. While we have business continuity plans in place, if significant portions of our or our vendors&#8217; workforces are unable to work effectively as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including because of illness, stay-at-home orders, facility closures, reductions in services or hours of operation, or ineffective remote work arrangements, there may be servicing disruptions, which could result in reduced collection effectiveness or our ability to operate our business and satisfy our obligations under our third-party servicing agreements. Each of these scenarios could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We rely upon our ability to access various credit facilities to fund our operations. As international trade and business activity has slowed and supply chains are disrupted related to the COVID-19 pandemic, global credit and financial markets have recently experienced, and may continue to experience, significant disruption and volatility. During the first quarter of 2020, financial markets experienced significant declines and volatility, and such market conditions may continue and/or precede recessionary conditions in the U.S. economy. Under these circumstances, we may experience some or all of the risks related to market volatility and recessionary conditions described under the caption "We are vulnerable to disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets" in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K. These include reduced demand for our products and services and reduced access to capital markets funding. These risks could have significant adverse impacts on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Governmental and regulatory authorities have recently implemented fiscal and monetary policies and initiatives to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on the economy and individual businesses and households, such as the reduction of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s benchmark interest rate to near zero in March 2020. However, these governmental and regulatory actions may not be successful in mitigating the adverse economic effects of COVID-19 and could affect our net interest income and reduce our profitability. Sustained adverse economic effects from the pandemic may also result in downgrades in our credit ratings or adversely affect the interest rate environment. If our access to funding is reduced or if our costs to obtain such funding significantly increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Due to the evolving nature of the pandemic, we are currently unable to estimate the adverse impact of COVID-19 on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The pandemic may also cause us to experience lower originations and higher credit losses in our lending portfolio, reduced access to funding or significantly increased costs of funding, impairment of our goodwill and other financial assets and other materially adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 

