 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The results of our operations are affected by our relationships with John Deere. See &#8220;Our Relationships with John Deere&#8221; for additional information regarding our relationships with John Deere.

The following risks are considered material to our business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; (MD&#38;A), including the risks and uncertainties described in the &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements,&#8221; the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and the risk factors of Deere &#38; Company included in Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. These risk factors and 

other forward-looking statements relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods. They involve certain factors that are subject to change and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; in this report are not the only risks we face.

STRATEGIC RISKS 

Our profitability and the financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of John Deere. 

Our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products. The results of our operations are affected by our relationship with John Deere, including, among other items, the terms on which we acquire Receivables and borrow funds from John Deere, the reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs from John Deere, the compensation paid by John Deere in connection with our purchase of trade receivables from John Deere, and the payment to John Deere for various expenses applicable to our operations. In addition, we have joint access to certain lines of credit with John Deere. 

If there were significant changes in the production or sales of John Deere products; the quality or resale value of John Deere equipment; John Deere&#8217;s liquidity, capital position, debt ratings, and access to capital markets; the reputation of John Deere; or high inflation, higher interest rates, supply chain constraints, or other factors impacting John Deere or its products, such changes could significantly affect our profitability, financial condition, and access to capital markets. In addition, if there were changes to sales incentive programs offered by John Deere to retail customers, in which we receive reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs, this could decrease our market share of John Deere financed equipment, volumes, and profitability.

We may be impacted by general negative economic conditions and outlook causing weakened demand for John Deere&#8217;s equipment and services, limiting access to funding, and resulting in higher funding costs for us and John Deere. 

The demand for John Deere&#8217;s and our products and services depends on the fundamentals in the markets in which we operate and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, high interest rates, cautious consumer spending, inflation, lower corporate earnings, and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions that cause John Deere&#8217;s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their likelihood of purchasing John Deere&#8217;s equipment. These economic events adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect John Deere and our operations.

Sustained negative economic conditions and outlook also affect housing starts, energy prices and demand, and other construction, which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere&#8217;s turf operations and its construction and forestry segments are dependent on construction activity and have also been affected by recent adverse economic conditions. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our results of operations. 

If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales. Uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook, such as market volatility and continuing interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve, have caused and could continue to cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce our earnings and cash flows.

John Deere may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions. 

John Deere&#8217;s failure to realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial Operating Model and related business strategies in production systems, precision technologies, and aftermarket support could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition based on our dependence on John Deere operations. Several factors could impact John Deere&#8217;s ability to successfully execute the Smart Industrial Operating Model, including, among other things, failure to accurately assess market opportunities and the technology required to address such opportunities; failure to develop and introduce new technologies or lack of adoption of such technologies by John Deere&#8217;s customers; and failure to holistically provide lifecycle solutions. In addition, if John Deere is unable to optimize its capital allocation in connection with the Smart Industrial Operating Model, including capital allocation for the development and delivery of financial solutions we provide, we and John Deere may not be able to realize the full benefits of the Smart Industrial Operating Model, which could have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our financial condition and results of operations. 

Similarly, John Deere may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Leap Ambitions and related goals in the expected timelines, or at all. As part of the Leap Ambitions, John Deere adopted various goals it expects to achieve by 2026 or 2030. John Deere may not be able to achieve these goals for a variety of reasons, some of which may be out of its control. For example, John Deere&#8217;s estimates and assumptions related to efficiency of its products and the adoption of precision technology may not be accurate; certain materials, such as quality battery cells and cameras, may become unavailable or too costly; or infrastructure required to achieve its goals, such as sufficient charging stations or fuel availability, may become too costly or may not be developed on the expected timeline. The actual or perceived failure of John Deere to achieve its Leap Ambitions could negatively impact its ability to execute the Smart Industrial Operating Model. 

John Deere may face risks associated with international, national, and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies and government farm programs and policies which could significantly impair John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects. As our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, these macroeconomic drivers could also negatively impact our profitability and growth prospects. 

International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere&#8217;s products, services, and technology, or those of its customers, or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere&#8217;s global business. John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets could impair John Deere&#8217;s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world and could limit the ability to access raw materials and high-quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions, negotiation of new trade agreements, non-tariff trade barriers, local content requirements, and imposition of new or retaliatory tariffs against certain countries or covering certain products, including developments in U.S.-China trade relations, export control and sanctions against Russia, have limited, and could continue to limit, John Deere&#8217;s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets. These trade restrictions, and changes in, or uncertainty surrounding global trade policies, may affect John Deere&#8217;s competitive position. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices, or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales could be harmed by such policies because farm income influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Additionally, changes in government farm programs and policies can influence demand for agricultural equipment as well as create unequal competition for multinational companies relative to domestic companies. 

We may be unable to manage increasing political, economic, and social uncertainty in certain regions of the world, which could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere&#8217;s and our competition, customer base, and product offerings globally. 

John Deere&#8217;s efforts to grow its business depends in part upon access and developing market shared and profitability in additional geographic markets, including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, and South Africa. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, and differing customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere&#8217;s other markets. In fiscal 2022, 

as a result of the war in Ukraine, John Deere suspended shipments of machines and service parts to Russia. The suspension of shipments to Russia reduced actual and forecasted revenue for the region, among other impacts. Having business operations in various regions and countries exposes us and John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting business practices, and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change. These practices and legal requirements are often complex and difficult to navigate, including those related to tariffs and trade regulations, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, repatriation of earnings, and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations, which can materially affect our financial results. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and its brands are widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brands are less known in some emerging markets, which could impede John Deere&#8217;s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. 

John Deere may be affected by changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of renewable energy, which could impact the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for John Deere equipment. This could result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. 

Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world&#8217;s growing food and renewable energy demands, driven in part by government policies, including those related to climate change, and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower agricultural commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment and result in higher credit losses. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere&#8217;s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, they could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. In addition, changing renewable energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demand. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for John Deere&#8217;s diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs for John Deere related to equipment fuel standards. These changes could have a negative effect on our results.

John Deere&#8217;s ability to understand its customers&#8217; preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer demand could significantly affect its business results. 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to match new product offerings to global customers&#8217; preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. In addition, our ability to anticipate and deliver on customers&#8217; changing preferences for financial solutions is critical to our success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere&#8217;s and our existing and potential customers on a global basis, particularly in growth markets such as Argentina, Brazil and India. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our business.

In addition, customer preferences in the markets served by John Deere are changing as a result of ongoing social and regulatory focus on sustainability as these markets transition to less carbon-intensive business models. As regulations and social pressure drive change, John Deere must continue to proactively monitor trends and develop alternatives and enhancements that elevate and complement its product offerings. For example, even though John Deere plans to offer electric, hybrid-electric, and battery electric equipment solutions, John Deere may be unable to keep up with the rising demand for electric agriculture, turf, and construction equipment. 

The development of alternative farming techniques, carbon sequestration technologies, and new low-carbon biofuels are changing farmers&#8217; business models and equipment needs. If John Deere fails to continue to develop or invest in emerging technologies to meet changing customer demands, John Deere will be at risk of losing potential sources of revenue, which could affect John Deere&#8217;s and our future financial results. 

John Deere&#8217;s and our ability to adapt in highly competitive markets could affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

John Deere operates in a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets with other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. In addition, John Deere&#8217;s industry is attracting non-traditional competitors, including technology-focused companies and start-up ventures. John Deere competes on product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, sustainability, customer service, and price. Aggressive pricing or other 

strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays, or John Deere&#8217;s failure to price its products competitively could adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition, which could negatively affect our results.

The equipment finance industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete for customers with commercial banks and finance and leasing companies based upon service, finance rates charged, and other finance terms. In addition, the competitive landscape is evolving as technology is unlocking new capabilities for traditional competitors and enabling new digital entrants. Our ability to maintain and expand our market share is contingent upon us offering competitive pricing, developing and maintaining strong relationships with dealers and customers, making substantial investments in our technological infrastructure, and effectively responding to changes in the agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment markets. In addition, any expansion into new markets may require us to compete with more experienced and established market participants. Failure to effectively manage these challenges could adversely affect our market share, and pressure to provide competitive pricing could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

John Deere relies on a network of independent dealers to manage the distribution of its products and services. If dealers are unsuccessful with their sales and business operations, it could have an adverse effect on overall John Deere sales and revenue. 

John Deere relies on the capability of John Deere dealers to develop and implement effective sales plans to create demand among purchasers for the equipment and related products and services that the dealers purchase from John Deere. If John Deere&#8217;s dealers are unsuccessful in these endeavors, John Deere will be unable to grow its sales and revenue, which would have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our financial condition. In addition, the dealer channel&#8217;s ability to support and service precision technology solutions and emerging power solutions may affect customers&#8217; acceptance and adoption rates of these products. The unavailability of specialized technicians to service John Deere&#8217;s equipment may result in overburdening dealers&#8217; servicing capacity. 

Dealers may have trouble funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations due to adverse business conditions resulting from negative economic effects or other factors. Dealers may exit or John Deere may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealers if they are unable to meet customer needs. The unplanned loss of any John Deere dealers could lead to inadequate market coverage, negative customer impressions of John Deere, and may adversely impact John Deere&#8217;s and our ability to collect receivables that are associated with that dealer.

ENVIRONMENTAL, CLIMATE, AND WEATHER RISKS 

Unfavorable weather conditions or natural catastrophes that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment could directly and indirectly affect John Deere&#8217;s and our business. 

The purchasing decisions of John Deere&#8217;s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment, can be significantly affected by poor or unusual weather conditions. Such conditions include: insufficient levels of rain, which prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields; excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth; temperatures outside normal ranges, which can cause crop failure or decreased yields and may also affect disease incidence; natural disasters such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, droughts, diseases, wildfires, and pests, either as a physical effect of climate change or otherwise, which have had and could in the future have significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production; adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region, particularly during the important spring selling season; and drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and can similarly cause lower sales volumes. Each of these conditions could have a negative impact on farm income which can affect demand for agricultural equipment and the financial condition and credit risk of our customers and John Deere&#8217;s dealers.

Governmental actions designed to address climate change based on the emergence of new technologies and business models in connection with the transition to a lower-carbon economy could adversely affect John Deere and its customers. 

There is global scientific consensus that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions continue to alter the composition of Earth&#8217;s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations have led to new international, national, regional, and local legislative and regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including us and John Deere, are continuing to look for ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources or the imposition of carbon pricing mechanisms could result in additional costs to us and John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, required facilities improvements, and increased energy costs. These results would increase John Deere&#8217;s and our operating costs through higher utility, transportation, and materials cost and could prevent John Deere from selling products into certain markets. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also affect customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. 

Further, we are subject to additional international and national European regulations relating to climate and environmental risk, which are continually evolving and could affect the financing operations and climate-risk processes developed by us. Regulators in Europe and the U.S. have also focused efforts on increased disclosure related to climate change and mitigation efforts. The EU recently adopted the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) that will impose disclosure of the risks and opportunities arising from social and environmental issues, and on the impact of companies&#8217; activities on people and the environment. The CSRD will need to be transposed into Member State law before it becomes effective, which is expected to occur in 2024. Similarly, the State of California recently passed the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act and the Climate-Related Financial Risk Act that will impose broad climate-related disclosure obligations on certain companies doing business in California, including us and John Deere, starting in 2026. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has included in its regulatory agenda potential rulemaking on climate change disclosures that, if adopted, could significantly increase compliance burdens and associated regulatory costs and complexity.

FINANCIAL RISKS 

Changes in government banking, monetary, and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on us .

Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on our customers and markets. Central bank policy interest rates continued to increase in fiscal year 2023. Most of our retail receivables are fixed rate, while wholesale financing receivables are generally variable rate. We have both fixed and variable rate borrowings. Historically, rising interest rates impact our borrowings sooner than the benefit is realized from the Receivable and Lease portfolios. 

Our operations and results could also be affected by financial regulatory reform that could, among other things, have an adverse effect on us and our customers by limiting their ability to enter into hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment, due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. John Deere and our operations, including those outside of the U.S., may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets. 

Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on us and John Deere. 

We and John Deere are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. John Deere&#8217;s and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. John Deere&#8217;s and our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretations. If John Deere&#8217;s and our effective tax rates 

were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount more than amounts previously accrued, John Deere&#8217;s and our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in foreign currencies, creating currency exchange and translation risk .

We are a global company with transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. Additionally, the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are denominated in other countries&#8217; currencies, which are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates and reported in our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates affect the value of those items as reflected in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currencies. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with some protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments, we potentially forego any benefits that may result from favorable fluctuations in such rates. 

Changes in interest rate risks or market liquidity conditions could adversely affect our financials and our earnings and/or cash. 

Central bank policy interest rates continued to increase in fiscal year 2023. Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of our customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers&#8217; ability to repay their obligations to us. Rising interest rates may cause credit market dislocations, that can impact funding costs, which can affect our ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. While we strive to match the interest rate characteristics of our financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates have had an adverse effect on our financing spread&#8212;the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rates we pay for funding&#8212;which has affected our earnings.

In addition, actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for us and can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position.

Because we are a financing company, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact our operations and financial results. 

Negative economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which we operate. We provide financing for a significant portion of John Deere&#8217;s sales in many of the countries in which we operate. We are exposed to the risk that customers and others will default on contractual obligations and may experience credit losses that exceed our expectations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support our financing activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact our write-offs and provision for credit losses.

Our results could be adversely affected by a decrease in the value of used equipment or higher than estimated returns of equipment on operating lease .

We sell repossessed equipment and equipment returned to us at the end-of-lease terms, primarily through the John Deere dealer network. We estimate the end-of-lease term residual value at the inception of the operating leases based on a number of factors, including lease term, expected hours of usage, historical wholesale sale prices, return experience, intended equipment use, market dynamics and trends, and third-party residual guarantees. Used equipment values may decrease as a result of any one or a combination of factors including market conditions, supply of and demand for used equipment, and technological advancements in new equipment. Depressed prices for used equipment may result in, or increase, a loss upon our disposition of off-lease or repossessed equipment, and in the case of repossessed equipment, we may be unable to collect the resulting deficiency. In addition, lower residual value estimates could result in increasing operating lease depreciation, impairment losses, and losses on the sale of matured operating lease inventory, which would decrease our earnings.

We could suffer operational and financial harm if our models fail to properly anticipate and manage risk. 

We use models to forecast losses, project revenue and expenses, assess and control our operations and financial condition, perform automated credit decisioning, assist in capital planning, and forecast and assess capital and liquidity requirements for credit, market, operational and strategic risks. However, models are subject to inherent limitations from simplifying assumptions, uncertainty regarding economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks. Our models may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, unanticipated market movements, customer behavior, and liquidity, which could limit their effectiveness and require timely recalibration. In addition, our models may be adversely impacted by human error and may not be effective if we fail to properly oversee and review them at regular intervals and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring processes. Regardless of the steps we take to help confirm effective controls, monitor and test, implement new technology, and implement new processes, we could suffer operational and financial harm if our models fail to properly anticipate and help us manage risks.

MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONAL RISKS 

Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components, and whole goods have resulted and could continue to result in disruptions to the supply chain causing production disruptions, increased costs, and lower profits on sales of John Deere products. As our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, supply chain disruptions and impacts of price increases could negatively impact our future volumes. 

John Deere requires access to various raw materials, components, and whole goods at competitive prices to manufacture and distribute our products. The price and availability of these materials have varied significantly in the last 36 months. While John Deere has seen stabilization in the supply chain and some commodity pricing improvements, John Deere anticipates potential fluctuations due to inflation, geopolitical and economic uncertainty, and regulatory and policy instability, including import tariffs and trade agreements. The latter have the potential to significantly increase production and logistics costs and have a material negative effect on the profitability of John Deere&#8217;s business, particularly if John Deere is unable to recover the increased costs due to market considerations or other factors. John Deere has experienced changes in the availability and prices of these raw materials, components, whole goods, and freight over the past several years, especially in fiscal years 2021 and 2022. Global logistics network challenges resulted in delays, shortages of key manufacturing components, increased order backlogs, increased transportation costs, and production inefficiencies from a higher number of partially completed machines in inventory, which increased John Deere&#8217;s overall production and overhead costs. Increases in such costs have had an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s business operations.

John Deere relies on its suppliers to acquire the raw materials, components, and whole goods required to manufacture their products. Significant disruptions to the supply chain resulting from shortages of raw materials, components, and whole goods have and could continue to adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to meet commitments to its customers. In addition, certain materials and components used in John Deere products are acquired from a single supplier or are proprietary in nature and cannot be alternatively sourced expeditiously. Furthermore, if John Deere&#8217;s customers are unwilling to accept price increases for its products, or if John Deere is unable to offset the increases in costs, raw material costs or shortages could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s operational or financial results, which could negatively impact us.

RESOURCES RISKS 

Our ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could affect our ability to execute our strategy. 

Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background, and experience, as well as our ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new employees, or inadequate resources to train, integrate, and retain qualified employees, could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, while we strive to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, our operations or ability to execute our business strategy and meet our business objectives may be affected by the loss of employees, particularly when departures involve larger numbers of employees, such as those we could experience if a surge occurs in the number of employees voluntarily leaving their jobs. Higher rates of employee separations may 

adversely affect us through decreased employee morale, the loss of knowledge of departing employees, and the devotion of resources to recruiting and onboarding new employees.

Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations and could compromise the information of us as well as our customers and/or John Deere dealers, exposing us to liability that could cause our business and reputation to suffer .

In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including credit application and collection of payments from dealers and other purchasers of John Deere equipment. We use information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and the proprietary business information of our customers and John Deere dealers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in data centers which are often owned by third parties, and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures, including a vulnerability disclosure program, and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure have been, and may be, vulnerable to intrusion, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, employees&#8217;, suppliers&#8217;, or dealers&#8217; errors or malfeasance, supply chain compromises, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, ransomware or other malware, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, or other events. Although we have not suffered any significant cyber incidents that resulted in a material business impact, we have from time to time been the target of malicious cyber threat actors. The occurrence of any significant event could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, obtained, publicly disclosed, lost, altered, misused, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, alteration, misuse or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, government investigations, liability or regulatory penalties, disruption or shut down of our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, we may need to invest additional resources to protect information security.

Our operations are affected by risks associated with our use of vendors and other third-party service providers. 

We rely on vendor and third-party service providers for a variety of products and services to run our core credit operations, such as customer invoicing, collections, and software solutions. This reliance exposes us to risks of those third parties failing to perform financially or contractually to our expectations. These risks could include material adverse impacts on our business, such as disruption or interruption of business activities, cyber-attacks and information security breaches, poor performance of services affecting our customer relationships, and possibilities that we could be responsible to our customers for legal and regulatory violations committed by those third parties while conducting services on our behalf. While we have implemented ongoing monitoring to address this risk, there can be no assurance that our vendor and third-party relationships will not have a material adverse impact on our business. 

LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS 

Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose us to potential liabilities, increased costs, and other adverse effects. 

Our global operations are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, many of which are complex, frequently changing, and subject to varying interpretations. These laws and regulations cover a broad spectrum of subject areas, including advertising; anti&#8211;money laundering; antitrust; consumer finance; environmental, climate-related, health, and safety; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; foreign ownership and investment; human rights, labor, and employment; and data privacy. These laws may vary substantially within the different countries in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and may further increase the cost of conducting our global operations. In addition, we must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all applicable foreign anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their 

intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, regardless of whether those practices are culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil sanctions and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Changes to existing laws and regulations, or changes to how they are interpreted, or the implementation of new, more stringent laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business by increasing compliance costs, limiting our ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to our business practices, or otherwise making our products and services less attractive to customers. Legislative and regulatory changes and other actions that could potentially affect our business may be announced with little or no advance notice and we may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse effects from such measures.

We are subject to governmental laws, regulations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection. Any inability or perceived inability of addressing these requirements could adversely affect our business. 

The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We collect personal information and other data as integral parts of our business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory and other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union (EU) and other relevant jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal information and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions. The EU General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, among others, impose stringent data protection requirements and provide significant penalties for noncompliance. New privacy laws will continue to come into effect around the world in the future. Any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns (even if unfounded), or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit revenue, and otherwise adversely affect our business.

Legal proceedings and disputes in which, we are, and may in the future be, involved could harm our business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. 

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks around the world. We face risks of exposure to various types of claims, lawsuits, and government inquiries or investigations in the ordinary course of business, the most prevalent of which relate to retail credit matters. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm our business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. The defense of lawsuits and government inquiries or investigations has resulted and may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management&#8217;s time and attention away from business operations. Such legal proceedings may also affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments exceeding our reserves.

GENERAL RISKS 

John Deere&#8217;s and our reputation and brand could be damaged by negative publicity. 

John Deere&#8217;s brand has worldwide recognition and significantly contributes to the success of both our businesses. John Deere&#8217;s reputation is critical to growing the customer base. John Deere&#8217;s brand depends on the ability to maintain a positive customer perception of the business, including the core values of integrity, quality, innovation, and commitment. Negative claims or publicity involving John Deere, its products or services, its culture and values, its stance on environmental, social, and governance topics, customer data, or any of its key employees or suppliers, could damage John Deere&#8217;s reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Damage to John Deere&#8217;s reputation could adversely impact its and our ability to attract new and maintain existing customer, employee, dealer, and business relationships. 

Additionally, negative or inaccurate postings, articles, or comments on social media and the internet about John Deere could generate negative publicity that could damage the reputation of John Deere, us, or the John Deere brand. 

Further, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against John Deere or us, or legal action initiated by John Deere or us, could also damage John Deere&#8217;s and our reputation and brand image, undermine customer confidence, and reduce long-term demand for John Deere equipment, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to John Deere&#8217;s or our operations. If the reputation, culture, or image of John Deere&#8217;s brands are damaged, or John Deere or we receive negative publicity, then our revenue, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Unexpected events have and may in the future increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. 

The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, acts of terrorism, epidemics and pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), civil unrest, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate, or in which John Deere suppliers are located, have and could in the future adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events have and could cause complete or partial closure of one or more of John Deere&#8217;s manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, and disruption and delay in the transport of John Deere products to dealers, end-users, and distribution centers. Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection from all the costs that may arise from such events.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers, and customers, and therefore on John Deere&#8217;s operations, are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographic regions. These potential physical effects may adversely affect the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and the financial performance of John Deere&#8217;s and our operations.

