 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

Webster Financial Corporation (the Holding Company) is a bank holding company and financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1986, and headquartered in Waterbury, Connecticut. Webster Bank, National Association (Webster Bank) and its HSA Bank division deliver a wide range of banking, investment, and financial services to individuals, families, and businesses. Webster Bank serves consumer and business customers with mortgage lending, financial planning, trust, and investment services through a distribution network consisting of banking centers, ATMs, a customer care center, and a full range of web and mobile-based banking services throughout southern New England and Westchester County, New York. It also offers equipment financing, commercial real estate lending, asset-based lending, and treasury and payment solutions primarily in the eastern U.S. HSA Bank is a leading provider of health savings accounts, while also delivering health reimbursement arrangements, and flexible spending and commuter benefit account administration services to employers and individuals in all 50 states. 

At December 31, 2020, Webster had assets of $32.6 billion, net loans and leases of $21.3 billion, deposits of $27.3 billion, and shareholders&#8217; equity of $3.2 billion. 

Webster Financial Corporation&#8217;s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WBS. Webster&#8217;s internet address is www.websterbank.com and investor relations internet address is www.wbst.com. Webster makes available free of charge on these websites its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, definitive proxy statements, and amendments, if any, to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These documents are also available to the public on the Internet at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. Information on Webster&#8217;s website and its investor relations website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

Subsidiaries of Webster Financial Corporation 

Webster Financial Corporation&#8217;s principal consolidated subsidiary is Webster Bank (the Bank). Its other directly consolidated subsidiaries are Webster Wealth Advisors, Inc. and Webster Licensing, LLC. The Holding Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock of Webster Statutory Trust which is an unconsolidated financial vehicle that has issued, and may in the future issue, trust preferred securities. 

Webster Bank&#8217;s significant direct subsidiaries include the following: Webster Servicing, LLC, which services HSA Bank operations; Webster Mortgage Investment Corporation, a passive investment subsidiary whose primary function is to provide servicing on qualified passive investments, such as residential real estate and commercial mortgage real estate loans acquired from Webster Bank; Webster Business Credit Corporation, which offers asset-based lending services; and Webster Capital Finance, Inc., which offers equipment financing for end users of equipment. 

Business Segments 

Webster Bank delivers a wide range of banking, investment, and financial services through three reportable segments, as follows. 

Commercial Banking provides lending, deposit, and treasury and payment solutions with a focus on building relationships with companies that have annual revenues greater than $25 million. Commercial Banking is comprised of the following: 

&#8226; Middle Market delivers a full array of financial services to a diversified group of companies, utilizing industry specialization and delivering competitive products and services, primarily in the Northeast. 

&#8226; Commercial Real Estate provides financing, primarily in the Northeast, for the acquisition, development, construction, or refinancing of commercial real estate for which the property is the primary security for the loan and income generated from the property is the primary repayment source. 

&#8226; Webster Business Credit Corporation is one of the top 25 asset-based lenders in the U.S. that builds relationships with growing middle market companies by financing core working capital and other financing needs primarily with revolving credit facilities with advance rates against accounts receivable and inventory. Webster Business Credit Corporation lends primarily in the eastern half of the U.S. 

&#8226; Webster Capital Finance offers small to mid-ticket financing for critical equipment, specializing in construction, transportation, environmental, and manufacturing equipment. Webster Capital Finance lends primarily in the eastern half of the U.S. and also in other select markets. 

&#8226; Treasury and Payment Solutions delivers a broad range of deposit, lending, treasury, and trade services, primarily in the Northeast, via a dedicated team of treasury professionals and local commercial bankers. Treasury and Payment Solutions is comprised of Government and Institutional Banking, Cash Management Sales, and Product Management to deliver holistic solutions to Webster&#8217;s increasingly sophisticated business and institutional clients. 

&#8226; Private Banking provides local, full relationship banking that serves high net worth clients, not-for-profit organizations, and business clients with asset management, financial planning services, trust services, loan products, and deposit products. These client relationships generate fee revenue on assets under management or administration, while a majority of the relationships also include lending and/or deposit accounts which provide net interest income and other ancillary fees. 

HSA Bank is a division of Webster Bank focused on providing health savings accounts, while also delivering health reimbursement arrangements and flexible spending and commuter benefit account administration services to employers and individuals in all 50 states. It is a leading bank administrator of health savings accounts based on accounts and assets under administration. Health savings accounts are distributed nationwide directly to employers and individual consumers as well as through national and regional insurance carriers, benefit consultants, and financial advisors. At December 31, 2020, HSA Bank had approximately 3 million accounts with approximately $10 billion in health savings account deposits and linked investment balances. 

Community Banking serves consumers and business banking customers primarily throughout southern New England and Westchester County, New York. Community Banking is comprised of personal and business banking, as well as a distribution network consisting of, 155 banking centers and 297 ATMs as of December 31, 2020, a customer care center, and a full range of web and mobile based banking services. 

&#8226; Personal Banking offers consumer deposit and fee-based services, residential mortgages, home equity lines/loans, unsecured consumer loans, and credit card products. In addition, investment and securities-related services, including brokerage and investment advice, are offered through a strategic partnership with LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (LPL), a broker dealer registered with the SEC, a registered investment advisor under federal and applicable state laws, a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). Webster Bank has employees located throughout its banking center network who, through LPL, are registered representatives. 

&#8226; Business Banking offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management products to businesses and professional service firms with annual revenues of up to $25 million. This group builds broad customer relationships through business bankers and business certified banking center managers, supported by a team of customer care center bankers and industry and product specialists. 

Human Capital Resources 

Webster had 3,345 employees, comprised of 63% female and 37% male, at December 31, 2020, which is substantially unchanged from December 31, 2019. No employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Webster provides its employees with comprehensive benefits, some of which are provided on a contributory basis, including medical and dental plans, a 401(k) savings plan with a company match component, life insurance, and short-term and long-term disability coverage. Additional benefits offered include paid time off, family leave, and employee assistance programs. The Company's compensation package is designed to maintain market competitive total rewards programs for all employees in order to attract and retain superior talent. The average employee tenure is approximately 8.6 years at December 31, 2020. 

The Company strives to have a powerful and diverse team of employees, knowing Webster is better together with a combined wisdom and intellect. With a commitment to equality, inclusion and workplace diversity, the focus is on understanding, accepting, and valuing the differences between people. To accomplish this, Webster has established a Diversity, Equity &#38; Inclusion Council made up of 15 employee representatives throughout the organization and a dedicated Diversity Officer. The Diversity, Equity &#38; Inclusion Council is Co-chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. 

Webster seeks to have a board of directors with diverse experience in business and areas relevant to the Company. Webster has nine directors, five of whom are female and two of whom are African American. 

The success of the Company is fundamentally connected to the well-being of its people and is a top priority to management. The COVID-19 pandemic presented a unique challenge with regard to maintaining employee safety while continuing successful operations. Through teamwork and the resiliency of management and staff, Webster was able to transition, over a short period of time, to 75% of employees effectively working from remote locations, while ensuring a safely-distanced working environment for associates performing customer facing activities, at branches, operations centers, and office locations. All employees are asked not to come to work when they experience signs or symptoms of a possible COVID-19 illness and have been provided compensation during such absences. 

Competition 

Webster is subject to strong competition from banks, thrifts, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, consumer finance companies, investment companies, insurance companies, and online lending and savings institutions. Certain of these competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of commercial and consumer banking services than Webster. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-bank entities, greater technological developments in the industry, and continued bank regulatory reforms. 

Webster faces substantial competition for deposits and loans throughout its market areas. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of office locations and hours, mobile banking and other automated services. Competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. The primary factors in competing for consumer and commercial loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, ease and convenience of loan origination channels, the quality and range of lending services, personalized service, and ability to close within customers&#8217; desired time frame. Competition for origination of loans comes primarily from commercial banks, non-bank lenders, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, mortgage brokers, online lenders, and insurance companies. Other factors which affect competition include the general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, and volatility in the lending markets. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks is intended to protect depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), and the U.S. banking system as a whole. This system is not designed to protect equity investors in bank holding companies. Set forth below is a summary of the significant laws and regulations applicable to Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Such statutes, regulations, and policies are subject to ongoing review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in any of the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries could have a material effect on the results of the Company. 

Webster Financial Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Webster Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a registered bank holding company and a financial holding company, it is subject to inspection, examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and is regulated under the BHC Act. Webster is under the jurisdiction of the SEC and is subject to the disclosure and other regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Webster is subject to the rules for companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) supervises Webster for compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. Webster is also subject to oversight by state attorneys general for compliance with state consumer protection laws. Webster&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including regulations of the Federal Reserve System. 

Webster Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Bank Act. Webster Bank is subject to the supervision of, and to regular examination by, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) as its primary federal regulator, as well as by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as its deposit insurer. Webster Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with FDIC laws and regulations. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) significantly changed the financial regulatory regime in the United States. Since the enactment of Dodd-Frank, U.S. banks and financial services firms have been subject to enhanced regulation and oversight. Several provisions of Dodd-Frank remain subject to further rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by the federal banking agencies. 

Enacted in 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (EGRRCPA) amended certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. EGRRCPA provides limited regulatory relief to certain financial institutions, while preserving the existing framework under which U.S. financial institutions are regulated. In addition to amending the Dodd-Frank Act, EGRRCPA also includes certain additional banking-related provisions, consumer protection provisions and securities law-related provisions. While many of EGRRCPA's changes have been implemented through rules adopted by federal agencies, the Company expects to continue to evaluate the potential impact of EGRRCPA as it is further implemented. 

CARES Act 

The CARES Act was enacted in March 2020 to provide economic relief in response to the public health and economic impacts of COVID-19. Many of the CARES Act&#8217;s programs are, and remain, dependent upon the direct involvement of U.S. financial institutions like the Company and the Bank. These programs have been implemented through rules and guidance adopted by federal departments and agencies, including the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Federal Reserve System, and other federal banking agencies, including those with direct supervisory jurisdiction over the Company and the Bank. 

Furthermore, as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, federal banking agencies continue to issue additional guidance and regulations with respect to the implementation, lifecycle, and eligibility requirements for the various CARES Act programs as well as industry-specific recovery procedures for COVID-19. The Company continues to assess the impact of the CARES Act, the potential impact of new COVID-19 legislation, and other statutes, regulations, and supervisory guidance related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CARES Act also amended the Small Business Administration loan program, in which the Bank participates, to create a guaranteed, unsecured loan program, the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), to fund operational costs of eligible businesses, organizations and self-employed persons during COVID-19. In December 2020, Congress revived the PPP and allocated additional PPP funds for 2021. As a result, the Small Business Administration is anticipated to modify prior guidance and promulgate new regulations and guidance to conform with and implement the new provisions during the first quarter of 2021. As a participating PPP lender, the Bank continues to monitor legislative, regulatory, and supervisory developments related thereto. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

Webster Financial Corporation is a bank holding company as defined under the BHC Act. The BHC Act generally limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Bank holding companies that have elected to become financial holding companies, such as Webster Financial Corporation, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system (as solely determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting, and making merchant banking investments. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

The BHC Act, Bank Merger Act, and other federal and state statutes regulate the direct and indirect acquisition of depository institutions. The BHC Act requires Federal Reserve System prior approval for a bank holding company to acquire, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a commercial bank or its parent holding company, and for a company other than a bank holding company to acquire 25% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company. In April 2020, the Federal Reserve System adopted a final rule codifying the presumptions used in determinations of whether a company has the ability to exercise a controlling influence over another company for purposes of the BHC Act, and providing greater transparency on the types of relationships that the Federal Reserve System generally views as supporting a determination of control. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, any person or company may not acquire, directly or indirectly, control of a bank without providing 60 days prior notice and receiving a non-objection from the appropriate federal banking agency. 

Under the Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the appropriate federal banking agency is required for insured depository institutions to merge or enter into purchase and assumption transactions. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger or purchase and assumption transactions, the federal banking agencies will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined banks, the applicant&#8217;s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), and the effectiveness of the merging banks in combating money laundering. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

Section 165 of Dodd-Frank imposes enhanced prudential standards on larger banking organizations. However, EGRRCPA makes bank holding companies with less than $100 billion in assets, such as Webster Financial Corporation, exempt from the enhanced prudential standards imposed under Section 165 including, but not limited to, the resolution planning and enhanced liquidity and risk management requirements therein. Further, on October 15, 2019, EGRRCPA was amended by raising the applicability threshold for company-run stress test requirements for bank holding companies from $10 billion or more in assets to $250 billion or more in assets. As a result, Webster Financial Corporation is relieved from the requirement to conduct company-run stress testing for itself and Webster Bank. However, while the federal banking agencies will not require company-run stress testing, the capital planning and risk management practices of the Company will continue to be reviewed through regular supervisory processes of the Federal Reserve System and the OCC. The Company will continue to perform certain stress tests internally and incorporate the economic models and information developed through its stress testing program into its risk management and business planning activities. 

Furthermore, under a previously issued rule of the Federal Reserve System implementing enhanced prudential standards required by Dodd-Frank, bank holding companies with more than $10 billion in assets were subject to certain rules, including a requirement to establish a separate risk committee of independent directors to manage enterprise-wide risk. EGRRCPA subsequently increased the asset threshold for requiring a bank holding company to establish a separate risk committee of independent directors from $10 billion to $50 billion. Notwithstanding the changes implemented by EGRRCPA, the Company has retained its Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Debit Card Interchange Fees 

Dodd-Frank requires that any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction and includes regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminate exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions, limit restrictions on merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms, and minimum-maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards. The Federal Reserve System, pursuant to Dodd-Frank, approved a final debit card interchange rule which caps an issuer&#8217;s base fee at 21 cents per transaction and allows for an additional amount equal to 5 basis points of the transaction's value. The Federal Reserve System separately issued a final rule that also allows a fraud-prevention adjustment of one-cent per transaction conditioned upon an issuer developing, implementing, and updating reasonably designed fraud-prevention policies and procedures. HSA Bank interchange revenue is not subject to this rule. 

Identity Theft 

The SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) jointly issued final rules and guidelines implementing the provisions of Dodd-Frank which require certain regulated entities to establish programs to address risks of identity theft. The rules require financial institutions and creditors to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing accounts or the opening of new accounts. The rules include guidelines to assist entities in the formulation and maintenance of programs that would satisfy these requirements. In addition, the rules establish special requirements for any credit and debit card issuers that are subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC or the CFTC to assess the validity of notifications of changes of address under certain circumstances. Webster implemented an ID Theft Prevention Program, approved by its Board of Directors, in compliance with these requirements. 

Volcker Rule 

Section 619 of Dodd-Frank, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, restricts the ability of banking entities, such as Webster and Webster Bank, from: (i) engaging in proprietary trading and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain covered funds, subject to certain limited exceptions. Under the Volcker Rule, the term covered funds is defined as any issuer that would be an investment company under the Investment Company Act but for the exemption in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act, which includes collateralized loan obligation securities (CLO) and collateralized debt obligation securities. There are also several exemptions from the definition of covered fund, including, among other things, loan securitization, joint ventures, certain types of foreign funds, entities issuing asset-backed commercial paper, and registered investment companies. The EGRRCPA and subsequent promulgation of inter-agency final rules have aimed to simplify and tailor requirements related to the Volcker Rule, including eliminating collection of certain metrics and reducing the compliance burdens associated with other metrics for banks with less than $20 billion in average trading assets and liabilities. In June 2020, the Federal Reserve System - along with the CFTC, FDIC, the OCC, and the SEC - issued a final rule modifying the Volcker Rule&#8217;s prohibition on banking entities investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds, collectively known as covered funds. The final rule modifies three areas of the Volcker Rule by: (1) streamlining the covered funds portion of the rule; (2) addressing the extraterritorial treatment of certain foreign funds; and (3) permitting banking entities to offer financial services and engage in other activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. The new rule became effective October 1, 2020. The Federal Reserve has granted Webster until July 21, 2022 to bring its holdings into compliance with the Volcker Rule. 

Dividends 

The primary source of liquidity at the Holding Company is dividends from Webster Bank. Prior approval from the OCC is required for a national bank to declare a dividend in any year that would exceed the sum of its net income for that year and its undistributed net income for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Webster Bank paid the Holding Company $20.0 million in dividends during the year ended December 31, 2020 and had $361.0 million of undistributed net income available for payment of dividends at December 31, 2020. 

In addition, Webster Financial Corporation and Webster Bank are subject to other regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. Federal regulatory agencies are authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. The federal banking agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice, and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Federal Reserve System 

Federal Reserve System regulations require depository institutions to maintain cash reserves against their transaction accounts, primarily interest-bearing and regular checking accounts. The required cash reserves can be in the form of vault cash and, if vault cash does not fully satisfy the required cash reserves, in the form of a balance maintained with Federal Reserve Banks (FRBs). The regulations require that Webster maintain cash reserves against aggregate transaction accounts in excess of the exempt amount. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System generally makes annual adjustments to the tiered cash reserve requirements, however, effective March 26, 2020 they reset the reserve requirement to zero to address liquidity concerns due to COVID-19. The reserve requirement remains subject to adjustment as conditions warrant. 

As a national bank and member of the Federal Reserve System, Webster Bank is required to hold capital stock of the FRB of Boston. The required shares may be adjusted up or down based on changes to Webster Bank&#8217;s common stock and paid-in surplus. Webster Bank was in compliance with these requirements, with a total investment in FRB of Boston stock of $60.1 million at December 31, 2020. The FRBs pay, to member banks with total assets greater than $10 billion, a semi-annual dividend equal to the lesser of 6% or the yield on the 10-year Treasury note auctioned at the last auction prior to the dividend payment date. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System provides a central credit facility for member institutions. Webster Bank is a member of the FHLB of Boston and is required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB for both membership and activity-based purposes. Capital stock requirements include an amount equal to 0.35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Bank&#8217;s unpaid residential mortgage loans and similar obligations at the beginning of each year, up to a maximum of $25 million, plus an amount that varies from 3.0% to 4.5% depending on the maturities of its FHLB advances, which totaled approximately $0.1 billion at December 31, 2020. Webster Bank was in compliance with these requirements, with a FHLB stock investment of $17.5 million at December 31, 2020. 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

Federal Reserve System policy requires bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Section 616 of Dodd-Frank codified the requirement that bank holding companies act as a source of financial strength. As a result, Webster Financial Corporation is expected to commit resources to support Webster Bank, including at times when Webster Financial Corporation may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. The U.S. bankruptcy code provides that, in the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of Webster Bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the Holding Company. If the assessment is not paid within three months, the OCC could order a sale of the Webster Bank stock held by Webster Financial Corporation to cover any deficiency. 

Capital Adequacy 

The Federal Reserve System, the OCC, and the FDIC adopted Capital Rules in accordance with BASEL III, which generally implement the capital framework for strengthening international capital standards. The Capital Rules define the components of regulatory capital, as well as address other issues affecting the numerator in the regulatory capital ratios of a banking institution. The Capital Rules also address asset risk weights and other matters affecting the denominator in the regulatory capital ratios of a banking institution. 

The Capital Rules (i) include the capital measure Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, defined by Basel III capital rules (CET1 capital) and related regulatory capital ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets; (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital instruments meeting certain revised requirements; (iii) mandate that most deductions or adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 capital and not to the other components of capital; and (iv) expand the scope of deductions from and adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations. 

Under the Capital Rules, for most banking organizations, including Webster, the most common form of additional Tier 1 capital is non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and the most common forms of Tier 2 capital are subordinated notes and the qualifying portion of the allowance for credit losses (ACL), all subject to specific requirements of the Capital Rules. Tier 1 capital to adjusted, as defined, average consolidated assets is known as the Tier 1 leverage ratio. 

Pursuant to the Capital Rules, ratio thresholds are as follows: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Adequately Capitalized Well Capitalized CET1 risk-based capital 4.5% 6.5% Total risk-based capital 8.0 10.0 Tier 1 risk-based capital 6.0 8.0 Tier 1 leverage capital 4.0 5.0 ##TABLE_END

The Capital Rules, which became fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, in addition to the minimum risk-weighted asset ratios, also include a capital conservation buffer composed entirely of CET1 capital. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions must hold a capital conservation buffer above its minimum risk-based capital requirements in order to avoid limitations on distributions, such as dividends, equity, other capital instrument repurchases, and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, based on the amount of any shortfall. The capital standards applicable to Webster and Webster Bank include an additional capital conservation buffer for which the lowest capital ratio excess over adequately capitalized must be at least 2.5%. 

The Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1 capital. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets (DTAs), and significant investments in non-consolidated financial institutions be deducted from CET1 capital to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 capital or all such items in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1 capital. 

Under the Basel III Rule, certain off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are converted into risk-weighted assets that, together with on-balance sheet assets, are the base against which regulatory capital is measured. The risk-weighting categories are standardized for bank holding companies and banks based on a risk-sensitive analysis, depending on the nature of the exposure. Risk weights range from 0% for U.S. government securities to 1,250% for exposures such as certain tranches of complex securitizations or certain equity exposures. 

In September 2017, the federal banking agencies proposed simplifying the Capital Rules. On July 9, 2019, the federal banking agencies adopted a final rule, replacing a substantially similar interim rule, to simplify several requirements of the regulatory capital rules for non-advanced approaches institutions, such as the Company. The final rule simplifies the capital treatment for mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets, investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions, and minority interests. 

Concurrent with enactment of the CARES Act, the federal banking agencies issued an interim final rule in late March 2020 that delayed the estimated impact on regulatory capital resulting from the adoption of the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) methodology. Subsequently, on August 26, 2020, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that allows institutions that adopt the CECL accounting standard in 2020 to mitigate CECL&#8217;s estimated effects on regulatory capital. The CECL final rule is substantially similar to the interim final rule issued in March 2020 in connection with other CARES Act related regulatory relief. The final rule gives eligible institutions the option to mitigate the estimated capital effects of CECL for two years, followed by a three-year transition period. The Company has elected this capital relief and delayed the regulatory capital impact of adopting CECL. 

Prompt Corrective Action and Safety and Soundness 

Pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, federal banking agencies are required to take prompt corrective action should an insured depository institution fail to meet certain capital adequacy standards. At each successive lower capital category, an insured depository institution is subject to more restrictions and prohibitions, including restrictions on growth, restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, restrictions or prohibitions on payment of dividends, and restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits. Furthermore, if an insured depository institution is classified in one of the under-capitalized categories, it is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the appropriate federal banking agency, and the holding company must guarantee the performance of that plan. 

Prompt corrective action ratios are as follows: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Well Adequately Under Significantly Capitalized Capitalized Capitalized Under-Capitalized CET1 risk-based capital 6.5 % 4.5 % &#60; 4.5% &#60; 3.0% Total risk-based capital 10.0 8.0 &#60; 8.0 &#60; 6.0 Tier 1 risk-based capital 8.0 6.0 &#60; 6.0 &#60; 4.0 Tier 1 leverage capital 5.0 4.0 &#60; 4.0 &#60; 3.0 ##TABLE_END

Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or under-capitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or practice warrants such treatment. An insured depository institution with a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is less than 2% is considered critically under-capitalized. 

Bank holding companies and insured depository institutions may also be subject to potential enforcement actions of varying levels of severity by the federal banking agencies for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in writing by the agency, or term of a written agreement with the agency. In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution affiliated parties; the termination of the insured depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance; the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the insured depository institution; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the FDIC, as receiver, would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Under federal law, transactions between insured depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA) and Federal Reserve Regulation W. In a bank holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a bank, and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company, are affiliates of the bank. Generally, sections 23A and 23B of the FRA are intended to protect insured depository institutions from losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates by limiting the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate and with all affiliates of the bank in the aggregate, and requiring that such transactions be on terms consistent with safe and sound banking practices. 

Further, Section 22(h) of the FRA and its implementing Regulation O restricts loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders or insiders. Under Section 22(h), loans to insiders and their related interests may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated entities, the institution&#8217;s total capital and surplus. Loans to insiders above specified amounts must receive the prior approval of the Board of Directors. Further, under Section 22(h) of the FRA, loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders must be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, except that such insiders may receive preferential loans made under a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to the bank&#8217;s employees and does not give preference to the insider over the employees. Section 22(g) of the FRA places additional limitations on loans to executive officers. 

Consumer Protection and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision 

Dodd-Frank centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating the CFPB, an independent agency charged with responsibility for implementing, enforcing, and examining compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Practices Act, various state law counterparts, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, which is part of Dodd-Frank. Dodd-Frank does not prevent states from adopting stricter consumer protection standards. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition or operations. 

The ability-to-repay provision of the Truth in Lending Act requires creditors to make reasonable, good faith determinations that borrowers are able to repay their mortgages before extending the credit based on a number of factors and consideration of financial information about the borrower from reasonably reliable third-party documents. Under Dodd-Frank and the qualified mortgage provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, commonly known as the Qualified Mortgage (QM) Rule, loans meeting the definition of qualified mortgage are entitled to a presumption that the lender satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. The presumption is a conclusive presumption/safe harbor for prime loans meeting QM requirements and a refutable presumption for higher-priced/subprime loans meeting QM requirements. The QM definition incorporates the statutory requirements, such as not allowing negative amortization or terms longer than 30 years. The QM Rule also adds an explicit maximum 43% debt-to-income ratio for borrowers if the loan is to meet the QM definition, though some mortgages that meet GSE, FHA, and VA underwriting guidelines may, for a period not to exceed seven years, meet the QM definition without being subject to the 43% debt-to-income limits. The CFPB is expected to continue to issue and amend rules implementing the consumer financial protection laws, which may impact Webster Bank&#8217;s operations. 

Financial Privacy and Data Security 

Webster is subject to federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain state laws containing consumer privacy protection provisions. These provisions limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to affiliated and non-affiliated third parties and limit the reuse of certain consumer information received from non-affiliated financial institutions. These provisions require notice of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain nonpublic personal information to affiliates or non-affiliated third parties by means of opt-out or opt-in authorizations. 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that financial institutions implement comprehensive written information security programs that include administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect consumer information. Federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and programs to protect such information. These guidelines, along with related regulatory materials, increasingly focus on risk management and processes related to information technology and the use of third-parties in the provision of financial products and services. The federal bank regulatory agencies expect financial institutions to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, and also expect financial institutions to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure rapid recovery, resumption, and maintenance of the institution&#8217;s operations after a cyber-attack. 

Further, pursuant to interpretive guidance issued under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain state laws, financial institutions are required to notify customers of security breaches that result in unauthorized access to their non-public personal information. In October 2016, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued proposed rules on enhanced cybersecurity risk-management and resilience standards that would apply to very large financial institutions and to services provided by third parties to these institutions. The comment period for these proposed rules has closed and a final rule has not been published. Although the proposed rules would apply only to bank holding companies and banks with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, these rules could influence the federal bank regulatory agencies&#8217; expectations and supervisory requirements for information security standards and cybersecurity programs of financial institutions with less than $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company. 

Depositor Preference 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Federal Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance limit is $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category. Substantially all of the deposits of Webster Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. 

The Bank&#8217;s quarterly assessment is calculated using the FDIC&#8217;s standardized risk-based assessment methodology, determined by the FDIC, which multiplies the Bank&#8217;s assessment base by its assessment rate. The assessment base is defined as the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the Bank. The assessment rate is based on measures of the institution&#8217;s capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market risk, commonly known as CAMELS ratings, which are certain financial measures to assess an institution&#8217;s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress, and a measure of loss severity that estimates the relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the Bank&#8217;s failure. The FDIC also has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the base assessment rate to reflect idiosyncratic quantitative and qualitative risk factors not captured in the FDIC&#8217;s standardized risk-based assessment methodology. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. Webster&#8217;s management is not aware of any practice, condition, or violation that might lead to the termination of its deposit insurance. 

Incentive Compensation 

Dodd-Frank required the federal banking agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines for specified regulated entities with at least $1 billion in total consolidated assets, which includes the Holding Company and Webster Bank, prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. The federal banking agencies and the SEC proposed regulations which have not yet been finalized. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed in 2016, they will restrict the manner in which executive compensation is presently structured. 

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws 

Webster Bank has a responsibility under the CRA, as implemented by OCC regulations to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. The OCC examines Webster Bank&#8217;s record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. Webster Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities and the activities of Webster Financial Corporation. Webster Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions against it by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB and the Department of Justice. Webster Bank&#8217;s latest OCC CRA rating was Outstanding. 

On December 17, 2019, the OCC and the FDIC issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking to modernize the regulations implementing the CRA. The rulemaking was intended to (i) clarify which activities qualify for CRA credit, (ii) update where activities count for CRA credit, (iii) create a more transparent and objective method for measuring CRA performance, and (iv) provide for more transparent, consistent, and timely CRA-related data collection, record keeping, and reporting. On May 20, 2020, the OCC issued its final rule on CRA modernization in keeping with these purposes. However, at the same time, the FDIC announced its withdrawal from the joint rulemaking with the OCC, citing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as the reason for its withdrawal. As a consequence, the OCC&#8217;s final rule only applies to national banks such as Webster Bank. Webster Financial Corporation and Webster Bank do not anticipate any adverse impact to the Bank's CRA compliance as a result of the OCC's final rule, but continue to monitor developments and assess the impact, if any, of further changes to the CRA regulations proposed by the FDIC and Federal Reserve System. 

USA PATRIOT Act 

Under Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act, all financial institutions are required to take certain measures to identify their customers, prevent money laundering, monitor customer transactions, and report suspicious activity to U.S. law enforcement agencies. Financial institutions also are required to respond to requests for information from federal banking agencies and law enforcement agencies. Information sharing among financial institutions for the above purposes is encouraged by an exemption granted to complying financial institutions from the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other privacy laws. Financial institutions that hold correspondent accounts for foreign banks or provide private banking services to foreign individuals are required to take measures to avoid dealing with certain foreign individuals or entities, including foreign banks with profiles that raise money laundering concerns, and are prohibited from dealing with foreign &#8220;shell banks&#8221; and persons from jurisdictions of particular concern. The primary federal banking agencies and the Secretary of the Treasury have adopted regulations to implement several of these provisions. All financial institutions also are required to establish internal anti-money laundering programs. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution under the Bank Merger Act. Webster has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act compliance program and engages in very few transactions of any kind with foreign financial institutions or foreign persons. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The United States government has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The Office of Foreign Assets Control-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Future Legislative Initiatives 

Federal and state legislatures may introduce legislation that will impact the financial services industry. In addition, federal banking agencies may introduce regulatory initiatives that are likely to impact the financial services industry, generally. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and/or depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, or, if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. A change in statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Webster or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of the Company. 

Risk Management Framework 

Webster maintains a comprehensive risk management program with a defined enterprise risk management framework that provides a structured approach for identifying, assessing, and managing risks across the Company, including strategic, credit, financial (market, liquidity, and capital), information, operational and compliance, legal, and reputation risks as discussed in the sections below. 

The risk management framework enables the aggregation of risk across the enterprise and ensures the Company has the tools, programs, and processes in place to support informed decision making in order to anticipate risks and to maintain Webster's risk profile consistent with its risk appetite. 

The risk management framework includes a risk appetite statement approved annually by the Board of Directors. The risk appetite statement is supported by board and business level scorecards with defined risk tolerances that establish the level of risk that the Company is willing to accept. The risk appetite statement is reviewed annually to ensure alignment of risk appetite with Webster's strategic and financial plan. 

In support of Webster's strong risk culture, Webster promotes proactive risk management by all employees and clear ownership and accountability across three lines of defense to enable an effective and credible challenge. Employees in the lines of business serve as the first line of defense and have responsibility for identifying, managing and owning the risks in their businesses. The first line of defense also includes support functions that provide information technology, operations, servicing, processing, or other support. The second line of defense is comprised of various risk management, compliance, and control functions responsible for providing guidance, oversight, and challenge to the first line of defense. Internal Audit and Credit Risk Review, which report directly to the chairs of the Audit and Risk Committees of the Board, respectively, serve as the third line of defense and ensure thorough review and testing that appropriate risk management controls, processes, and systems are in place and functioning effectively. 

The Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, comprised of independent directors, oversees Webster&#8217;s risk management activities and provides input and guidance to the Board of Directors and the executive team on risk related matters. The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the risk profile of the Company remains within the risk appetite and for ensuring execution of the risk management framework. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for establishing and maintaining Webster's enterprise risk management framework and directly overseeing the credit risk, operational and compliance risk oversight programs. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for overseeing market, liquidity, and capital risk management activities. The Chief Information Officer is responsible for overseeing information security and technology risk programs. The General Counsel is responsible for overseeing legal risk activities. Webster&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC) was formed to support the design and execution of the risk management program and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and is comprised of Webster's executive officers and senior risk officers. The ERMC reports its findings to the Risk Committee of the Board. 

Strategic Risk 

Strategic Risk represents the risk of ineffective strategy selection and execution. Webster maintains a comprehensive and continuous strategic review process that informs the long-range plan. Webster's long-range plan is developed by the Operating Management Committee, consisting of Webster's executive officers, addresses strategic risks, and is aligned with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements. The Board reviews the impact of strategic choices on the risk profile and opines on the long-range plan. Executive management executes the long-range plan within the established performance parameters and monitors execution of the plan and updates the Board on the progress throughout the year. Key strategic actions including mergers/acquisitions and partnerships with key strategic partners are reviewed and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are in place to understand the strategic risk impact of new, expanded or modified products and services and to provide appropriate level of review and approval. 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk represents the risk of a consumer or commercial borrower, issuer, or counterparty failing to meet its contractual obligations under a loan, security, or derivative agreement. Webster manages and controls credit risk in its loan, investment, and derivative portfolios through established underwriting practices, adherence to standards, and utilization of portfolio and transaction monitoring tools and processes. Credit policies and underwriting guidelines provide limits on exposure and establish other standards as deemed necessary and prudent. Approval and reporting requirements are implemented to ensure proper risk identification, decision rationale, risk ratings, and disclosure of policy exceptions. 

Credit risk management activities are overseen by the Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Credit Officer and team of credit executives are independent of the loan production and treasury functions. The credit risk function oversees the underwriting, approval, portfolio management, and troubled asset processes and establishes and ensures adherence to credit policies. 

The Credit Risk Management Committee (CRMC) meets regularly to review key credit risk topics, issues, portfolios and policies. The CRMC reviews Webster&#8217;s credit risk scorecard, which covers key risk indicators and limits established as part of the Company&#8217;s risk appetite framework. The CRMC is chaired by the Chief Credit Officer and includes executives and senior managers from the first and second lines of defense. Important findings regarding credit quality and trends within the loan and investment portfolios are regularly reported to the ERMC and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Information Security and Technology Risks 

The use of technology to store and process information and an increasing use of mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions exposes Webster to the risk of potential operational disruption or information security incidents. Sources of these risks include deliberate or accidental acts by employees, external parties, technology failure, third-party security practices, and environmental factors. Webster is committed to detecting, preventing, and responding to incidents that may impact the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets, and has established a comprehensive information security and technology program under the direction of the Chief Information Security Officer. Webster's information technology risk function is responsible for the technology risk framework and associated policies, procedures, and processes. Oversight of both the information security and information technology risk programs is provided by the Information Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Director of Information Technology Risk. The Information Risk Committee regularly reports its findings to the ERMC and Risk Committee/Board of Directors. 

Operational and Compliance Risks 

Operational risk represents the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events. The Operational Risk function is responsible for establishing processes and tools to identify, manage, and aggregate operational risk across the organization; providing guidance and advice on operational risk matters; and educating the organization on operational risks. Compliance risk represents the risk of non-adherence to applicable laws and regulations, including fines, penalties and reputation damage. Specific programs and functions have been implemented to manage the risks associated with legal and regulatory requirements, suppliers and other third-parties, information security, business disruption, fraud, analytical and forecasting models, and new products and services. 

Webster&#8217;s Operational Risk Management Committee, which consists of senior risk officers and senior managers responsible for operational and compliance risk management across the Company, periodically reviews the operational and compliance programs, as well as key operational risk trends, issues, and mitigation activities. The Director of Enterprise and Operational Risk Management chairs the Operational Risk Management Committee and is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of Webster&#8217;s operational risk management framework. The Operational Risk Management Committee regularly reports its findings to the ERMC and Risk Committee/ Board of Directors. 

Market, Liquidity, and Capital Risk 

Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity, equity, and other market rates. The risk of loss is assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows, and future earnings. Webster's primarily market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates and it aims to maintain interest rate exposure within established limits. Liquidity risk refers to the ability to meet a demand for funds by converting assets into cash or cash equivalents and borrowing money at an acceptable cost. Webster aims to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet day to day and longer term cash flow requirements of its customers. Capital risk is the risk of having insufficient capital to pursue the bank's business objectives in a normal or stressed environment. Webster aims to maintain adequate capital to support its business objectives and risk appetite. 

Market, Liquidity, and Capital risks are managed under the supervision of the Treasurer who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. As part of the risk management governance, Webster has an established Asset/Liability Committee (ALCO) that meets regularly to review key market, liquidity, and capital risk topics. ALCO reviews policies, key risk indicators and limits established as part of the Company's risk appetite framework. ALCO is chaired by the Treasurer and includes the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and other key executives and senior managers. ALCO regularly reports its findings to the ERMC and Risk Committee/Board of Directors. 

Legal and Reputational Risks 

Legal risk represents financial or reputational exposure resulting from bank initiated or third-party initiated litigation and the risk that Webster's governance structure is inadequate to facilitate Board oversight of company activities to ensure alignment with regulatory guidelines and stakeholder expectations. 

The General Counsel chairs the Litigation Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of executive officers and key senior managers, and oversees all aspects of legal risk including the review of material pending litigation, litigation-related standards and procedures, emerging trends in litigation, and developments in the law relating to Webster's conduct of business. The Litigation Risk Management Committee regularly reports its findings to the ERMC and the Risk Committee/Board of Directors. 

Reputational risk represents the risk of negative public and/or market perception of internal conduct or business practices. Reputational risk management is a collective effort of the entire organization that crosses departments and functions. All employees are guided by the corporate values to exercise sound judgment and common sense in making decisions taking into consideration the impact of such decisions on all stakeholders. They are incented to behave ethically and promptly escalate perceived issues. The Risk Committee provide an oversight of reputational risks arising from business activities. 

Internal Audit 

Internal Audit provides independent, objective assurance and advisory services by applying a risk-based approach to selectively 

test and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of applicable internal controls throughout the Company. This evaluation 

function brings a systematic and disciplined approach to enhancing the effectiveness of the Company&#8217;s governance, risk 

management, and internal control processes. 

Results of Internal Audit reviews are reported to management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Corrective 

measures are monitored to ensure risk issues are mitigated or resolved. The Chief Audit Executive reports functionally to the 

Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Executive Officer. The appointment or replacement of the Chief Audit 

Executive is overseen by the Audit Committee. 

Additional information on risks and uncertainties and additional factors that could affect the Company&#8217;s results of operations can be found in Item 1A and elsewhere within this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, and in other reports Webster Financial Corporation files with the SEC. 

