 Item 1A. Ris k Factors 

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, readers should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, as such factors could materially affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, or future results of operations. 

The risk factors set forth in our 2020 Form 10-K are updated by the following risks: 

Failure to complete our proposed merger with Flagstar could negatively impact our business, financial results, and stock price. 

If for any reason the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely impacted and we will be subject to a number of risks, including: the financial markets may react negatively, resulting in negative impacts on our stock price and other adverse impacts; we may experience negative reactions from our customers, vendors, and employees; we will have incurred substantial expenses and will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, investment banking, and other professional and administrative fees; the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the merger, such restrictions, may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; and matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have benefited us as a standalone company. 

Our ability to complete the proposed merger with Flagstar is subject to the receipt of approval from various regulatory agencies. 

Prior to the transaction contemplated in the merger agreement being consummated, the Company and Flagstar must obtain various approvals, including approvals of the New York State Department of Financial Services, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business or require changes to the terms of the transaction completed by the merger agreement. Although the Company and Flagstar do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that the regulations will not impose any such conditions, obligations or restrictions, and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect if delaying or preventing completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. 

We face risks and uncertainties related to our proposed merger with Flagstar. 

Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on personnel and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change their existing business relationships with us. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their roles with the surviving company following the merger. 

The Company and Flagstar have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate independently. The ultimate success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, among other things, will depend, in part, on our and Flagstar's ability to successfully combine and integrate our and Flagstar's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated cost savings. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of either company's ongoing business, unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs, and an integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Also, if the combined companies experience difficulties or delays with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all. 

The merger agreement between the Company and Flagstar may be terminated in accordance with its terms. 

The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which need to be fulfilled in order to consummate the merger. These conditions include the approval of shareholders of both companies, the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, the absence of any order, injunction, or other legal restraint, subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of representations and warranties under the merger agreement, our and Flagstar's performance of our and their respective obligations under the merger agreement in all material aspects, and each of our and Flagstar's receipt of a tax opinion to the effect that the merger will be treated as a &#34;reorganization&#34; within the 

&#160; 

meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and accordingly, the merger may be delayed or may not be completed. 

We and Flagstar may opt to terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances. Among other situations, if the merger is not completed by April 25, 2022, either we or Flagstar may choose not to proceed with the merger. We and Flagstar can also mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time. If the merger agreement is terminated, under certain limited circumstances, Flagstar may be required to pay a $90 million termination fee to us. 

Stockholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the proposed merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. 

Lawsuits may be filed against us, Flagstar, or the directors and officers of either company relating to the proposed merger. Litigation filed against us, our Board of Directors, or Flagstar and its Board of Directors could prevent or delay the completion of the merger, cause us to incur additional costs, or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the effective time of the merger may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, and market price. 

