 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

As a result of Webster entering into a merger agreement with Sterling, certain risk factors have been identified: 

Webster may not be able to complete the merger with Sterling, as the completion is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, some of which are beyond both Webster's and Sterling's control. 

Adoption of the merger agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals and the requisite approvals of both Webster's shareholders and Sterling's shareholders. Conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and accordingly, the merger may not be completed. In addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, or Webster or Sterling may unilaterally elect to terminate the merger agreement. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Webster may be required to pay a $185.0 million termination fee to Sterling. 

Webster and Sterling may also be subject to lawsuits challenging the merger, and adverse rulings in these lawsuits may delay or prevent the merger from being completed or require Webster or Sterling to incur significant costs to defend or settle these lawsuits. Any delay in completing the merger could cause Webster not to realize, or be delayed in realizing, some or all of the benefits that the Company expects to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within the anticipated time frame. 

While the merger is pending, Webster will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect its business and operations. 

Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers, and other persons with whom Webster or Sterling have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on Webster's business, operations and stock price. Existing customers of Webster and Sterling could decide to no longer do business with Webster, Sterling, or the combined company, reducing the anticipated benefits of the merger. Webster and Sterling are also subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their respective businesses while the merger is pending. As a result, certain other projects may be delayed or abandoned and business decisions could be deferred. Employee retention at Sterling and Webster may be challenging before completion of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. These retention challenges could require Webster to incur additional expenses in order to retain key employees. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Webster, Sterling or the combined company, the benefits of the merger could be materially diminished. 

Webster may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Further, following the completion of the merger, Webster may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating with Sterling, and consequently, its results could suffer. 

Webster and Sterling have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on Webster&#8217;s ability to successfully integrate Sterling&#8217;s operations in a manner that results in various benefits and that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. The process of integrating operations could result in a loss of key personnel or cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses. Inconsistencies in standards, internal controls, procedures, and policies could adversely affect the combined company. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of Sterling&#8217;s operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and operating results of the combined company. If Webster experiences difficulties in the integration process, including those listed above, Webster may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in a timely manner or at all. 

Upon the merger's completion, the size of Webster&#8217;s business will increase significantly. Webster&#8217;s future success depends, in part, upon the ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There 

is no guarantee that Webster will be successful or that Webster will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger&#8217;s completion. 

Webster is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the merger and integration with Sterling. 

Both Webster and Sterling will incur substantial transaction costs and other expenses in connection with the merger, as there are various processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated. Many of the expenses that will be incurred are inherently difficult to estimate accurately and could exceed the anticipated savings that Webster expects to achieve. While Webster has planned for an estimated level of expenses to be incurred, there are many factors beyond the Company&#8217;s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of charges to earnings. 

The other risk factors that could affect the Company's financial condition or operating results remain unchanged from those previously disclosed in Webster's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

