 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Truist Financial Corporation is a purpose-driven financial services company committed to inspiring and building better lives and communities. As a leading U.S. commercial bank, Truist has leading market share in many of the high-growth markets across the country. Truist offers a wide range of products and services through its wholesale and consumer businesses, including consumer and small business banking, commercial banking, corporate and investment banking, insurance, wealth management, payments, and specialized lending businesses. Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Truist is a top-10 commercial bank. 

Truist Bank, Truist&#8217;s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,001 offices as of December 31, 2023 and its digital platform. 

Services 

Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. The following table reflects examples of services provided by Truist: ##TABLE_START Table 1: Services &#160; Consumer Services: &#160; Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Credit card lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Consumer finance Commercial lending Home equity and other direct retail lending Floor plan lending Home mortgage lending Derivatives Insurance Institutional trust services Investment brokerage services Insurance Mobile/online banking Insurance premium finance Payment solutions International banking Point-of-sale lending Investment banking and capital markets services Retail and small business deposit products Leasing Small business lending Merchant services Wealth management/private banking Mortgage warehouse lending Payment solutions Real estate lending Supply chain financing ##TABLE_END

Market Area 

The following table reflects Truist&#8217;s deposit market share and branch locations by state: ##TABLE_START Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State &#160; % of Truist&#8217;s Deposits (2) 

Deposit Market Share Rank (2) 

Number of Branches (3) 

Florida 23 % 3rd 452 Georgia 19 1st 213 Virginia 15 2nd 265 

North Carolina (1) 

13 2nd 285 Maryland 7 3rd 145 Tennessee 5 4th 100 Pennsylvania 4 9th 146 South Carolina 4 3rd 98 Texas 3 21st 99 West Virginia 2 1st 43 Kentucky 2 4th 55 Washington, D.C. 1 5th 22 Alabama 1 6th 51 New Jersey 1 24th 21 Other states NA NA 6 ##TABLE_END

(1) Deposit market share rank excludes home office deposits. 

(2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2023. 

(3) As of December 31, 2023. 

4 Truist Financial Corporation 

Competition 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Management believes that Truist&#8217;s client-first approach is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company&#8217;s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop Truist&#8217;s digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are competitive in meeting clients&#8217; expectations. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation within the industry, could result in increased competition from new and existing market participants. Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional, and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment advisers, asset managers, securities brokers and dealers, private-equity funds, hedge funds, mortgage-banking companies, finance companies, financial technology companies, and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide financial products and services directly as well as indirectly through partnerships has increased competition. 

Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which we operate. Some also have greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than ours. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and client growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and client service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. 

General Business Development 

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients&#8217; financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist&#8217;s long-term strategy primarily encompasses organically growing and deepening client relationships across its core and profitable businesses. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy 

The Company operates a diverse set of business lines nationally, with strong market shares concentrated in high growth markets in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. Truist will continue to perform the appropriate due diligence on potential strategic mergers and acquisitions to enhance growth, when market conditions, business objectives, profitability, impact to capital, and market share considerations align to create favorable opportunities. Although mergers and acquisitions are not a top capital distribution priority for Truist, the Company will continue to assess future opportunities, which may include financial services businesses that strengthen Truist&#8217;s capabilities, and banks that enhance Truist&#8217;s market position. 

Truist&#8217;s merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: 

&#8226; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive in that it: 

&#9702; enhances scale and increases revenue via expanded markets and/or products; 

&#9702; improves the client experience; and 

&#9702; solidifies Truist&#8217;s position within the future of banking; 

&#8226; the organization must be a good fit with Truist&#8217;s culture; 

&#8226; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist&#8217;s risk appetite; and 

&#8226; the transaction must meet Truist&#8217;s financial criteria. 

Truist Financial Corporation 5 

Regulatory and Supervisory Considerations 

We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. 

We are also subject to direct supervision and periodic examinations by various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations that are charged with overseeing the kinds of business activities in which we engage. These agencies and organizations generally have broad authority and discretion in restricting and otherwise affecting our businesses and operations and may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us when, in the applicable agency&#8217;s or organization&#8217;s judgment, our businesses or operations fail to comply with applicable law, comport with safe and sound practices, or meet its supervisory expectations. We strive to maintain constructive relationships with supervisory authorities. 

The regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other customers, the DIF, the broader economy, and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and non-deposit creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. 

The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including the banking turmoil in early 2023, technological factors, market changes, climate change concerns, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal bank regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statutes or regulatory provisions. 

General 

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination, and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. 

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory, and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, and NFA. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, which govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Examinations by regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Following examinations by banking agencies, Truist and Truist Bank receive supervisory findings and ultimately are assigned supervisory ratings. Examination reports, supervisory ratings, and other actions under this supervisory framework, which are considered confidential supervisory information, can impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of Truist&#8217;s operations, possibly to a significant degree. 

Under the FRB&#8217;s Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered &#8220;well managed&#8221; under this rating system, a firm must be rated &#8220;broadly meets expectations&#8221; or &#8220;conditionally meets expectations&#8221; for each of its three component ratings. 

6 Truist Financial Corporation 

The results of examinations by any of Truist&#8217;s federal bank regulators can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist&#8217;s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, represent an unfair, deceptive, abusive act or practice, or do not meet supervisory expectations. 

FHC Regulation 

Truist has elected to be treated as an FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. While FHCs may engage in certain acquisitions without prior approval of the FRB, any acquisition over $10 billion in assets would require prior approval by the FRB. In order to maintain its status as an FHC, Truist and its affiliated IDI must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC and may place limitations on its ability to conduct certain business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. Longstanding federal regulations require a FHC to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. In times of severe financial stress, the obligation to serve as a source of strength could cause Truist to commit significant resources to supporting Truist Bank that otherwise would be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. 

Resolution Planning 

As a Category III banking organization, Truist is required to submit to the FRB and FDIC a resolution plan every three years with submissions alternating between a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan. Upon review of the plan, the agencies may jointly determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If Truist were to fail to adequately address deficiencies in a timely manner, it may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on growth, activities, or operations. Truist submitted its inaugural resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC in September 2021. On September 30, 2022, the FRB and FDIC announced that they did not identify any shortcomings or deficiencies in Truist&#8217;s resolution plan. In August 2023, the FRB and FDIC proposed updated guidance on resolution planning requirements applicable to the Company and in January 2024, the agencies extended the deadline for the next submission from July 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025. 

In addition, Truist Bank, as an IDI, is required by FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan every three years. The FDIC issued a policy statement in June 2021 announcing that it will resume requiring bank level resolution plans for large banks, including Truist Bank, and that such bank-level resolution plans will have more streamlined content requirements than previous requirements. Truist Bank submitted its inaugural IDI resolution plan to the FDIC in November 2022. 

In August 2023, the FDIC issued a proposal to amend its rules requiring covered IDIs, including Truist Bank, to periodically submit resolution plans to the FDIC. Covered IDIs would be split into Group A and Group B, with Group A covered IDIs comprising IDIs with $100 billion or more in total assets and Group B being IDIs with at least $50 billion but less than $100 billion in total assets. Group A covered IDIs, including Truist, would be required to submit full plans, while Group B covered IDIs are only required to submit information filings. If adopted as proposed, Truist Bank would be required to submit a full resolution plan to the FDIC every two years and submit an interim supplement in each year that it is not required to submit a full resolution plan. In addition, this proposal would increase the content requirements for plan submissions and introduce a new credibility standard for the FDIC&#8217;s evaluation of resolution plans, which would be enforceable against the covered IDIs. The proposed rule indicates the FDIC would create two submission cohorts for Group A covered IDIs, with one cohort submitting a full filing at least 270 days from the effective date of the final rule and the other cohort submitting an interim supplement filing; the two cohorts would then alternate between a full filing and the interim supplement filing each year. The FDIC has not communicated which cohort Truist falls into and has not indicated when the proposal will be finalized. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

Certain U.S. BHCs, including Truist, are subject to enhanced prudential standards. As such, Truist is subject to more stringent liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, single-counterparty credit limits, resolution planning and risk management standards than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. 

Truist Financial Corporation 7 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is subject to the standards applicable to Category III banking organizations, which generally include BHCs with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures. 

Capital Requirements 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements established by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These requirements are based on the capital framework developed by the BCBS for strengthening the regulation, supervision, and risk management of banks under Basel III rules, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist&#8217;s operations or financial condition. These actions could include requiring Truist to commit capital to Truist Bank in abnormal operating conditions which would otherwise be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist&#8217;s or Truist Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval for acquisitions. 

Under the regulatory capital rules, Truist&#8217;s and Truist Bank&#8217;s assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights under the standardized approach used to determine the institutions&#8217; risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders&#8217; equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock, and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

Under the FRB&#8217;s capital framework for BHCs, Truist is subject to capital requirements, including the SCB, that are determined from the supervisory stress test results. The SCB is equal to the greater of (i) the difference between Truist&#8217;s starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of its planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. The FRB assigned Truist an SCB of 2.9%, which is effective from October 1, 2023 to September 30, 2024, at which point a revised SCB will be calculated and provided to Truist. Truist is required to describe its planned capital actions in its CCAR capital plan, but is no longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capital plan. Instead, Truist is subject to automatic distribution limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements, which include the SCB. 

For certain large banking organizations, the SCB could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.9%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.4%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.4% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. In addition, Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.0%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.0%. 

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the &#8220;Market Risk&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to market risk management. 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets, net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions. Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure of derivative contracts. 

8 Truist Financial Corporation 

The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater to meet the well-capitalized minimum. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC&#8217;s particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. 

In July 2023, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal to revise the risk-based capital standards applicable to the Company and Truist Bank. This proposal would introduce new approaches for credit risk, operational risk, market risk, and credit valuation adjustment risk that generally align with the approaches for these risks under the global Basel Accord adopted by the Basel Committee. The proposal would introduce a new measure of risk-weighted assets, which would reflect the proposed new standardized approaches for credit risk, operational risk, and credit valuation adjustment risk, as well as a proposed new measure for market risk that would be based on both internal models and standardized supervisory models of market risk. In addition, the proposal requires category III and IV financial institutions to include certain components of AOCI in the calculation of regulatory capital, as well as change the calculation of certain deductions consistent with standards in place for category I and II financial institutions. The proposal includes a proposed effective date of July 1, 2025, subject to a three-year transition period ending July 1, 2028, over which the expanded total risk-weighted assets would be phased in. We continue to evaluate this proposal and the potential impacts, if adopted as proposed, on the Company and Truist Bank. 

Refer to the &#8220;Capital&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for disclosures containing the minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

In addition to the regulatory capital requirements, under the FRB&#8217;s CCAR process, Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. 

The FRB&#8217;s CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework also require BHCs subject to Category III standards, such as Truist, to conduct company-run stress tests and submit to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. The company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distribution assumptions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios intended to stress the unique risk profile of the institution. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing internal supervisory models on the supervisory stress scenarios. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis. 

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 5, 2024. The FRB is required to announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2024. 

In addition to the CCAR stress testing for Truist, Truist Bank conducts company-run stress tests on an annual basis, while only required biennially. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR and NSFR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. The NSFR is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR, calculated as the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding, must exceed 1.0x. Available stable funding represents a weighted measure of a company&#8217;s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company&#8217;s equity and liabilities based on their expected stability. Required Stable Funding is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III banking organization, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to LCR and NSFR requirements equal to 85% of the full requirement. 

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC&#8217;s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

Truist Financial Corporation 9 

Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements 

In August 2023, the U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule that would require banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets to comply with long-term debt requirements and clean holding company requirements that currently apply only to GSIBs. This proposal would also impose a long-term debt requirement on certain categories of insured depository institutions, including insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as Truist Bank. If adopted, this proposal would require the Company and Truist Bank to each maintain a minimum outstanding eligible long-term debt amount of no less than the greatest of (i) 6% of risk-weighted assets, (ii) 2.5% of total leverage exposure and (iii) 3.5% of average total consolidated assets. Truist Bank would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt to the Company, and the Company would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt externally. In addition, if adopted as proposed, the clean holding company requirement would limit or prohibit the Company from entering into certain transactions that could impede its orderly resolution, including, for example, prohibiting the Company from entering into transactions that could spread losses to subsidiaries and third parties, as well as limiting the amount of the Company&#8217;s liabilities that are not eligible long-term. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company. 

The Parent Company&#8217;s ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC&#8217;s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing shares, is subject to the FRB&#8217;s automatic restrictions on capital distributions under the FRB&#8217;s capital rules. Truist&#8217;s risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements are discussed above in the &#8220;Capital Requirements&#8221; section. 

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies are required to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; To be considered &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth, or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company&#8217;s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC, in its capacity as a source of strength would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments. 

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality, and executive compensation; and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

10 Truist Financial Corporation 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Acquisitions 

Truist is subject to numerous laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations&#8217; compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals, and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, subject to variation by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the resulting company&#8217;s liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

The standards by which bank and financial institution acquisitions are evaluated are under review. Among other things, in July 2021, an executive order was issued on competition that requires the banking agencies to review the standards for bank mergers. In March 2022, the FDIC requested information and public input on all aspects of the existing regulatory framework that applies to bank merger transactions. In June 2023, the Department of Justice noted that it is preparing a revised approach to its assessment of bank mergers that will consider a wider range of factors and potential competitive harms, consistent with the July 2021 executive order. Additionally, some members of Congressional leadership are closely tracking the standards for bank mergers and can be expected to engage in hearings and public statements in connection with any pending or future merger activity. These reviews and engagements could change the standards for bank mergers. The timing of any revised standards for reviewing bank and financial institution mergers is uncertain. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order, or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties, or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. 

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

Truist Financial Corporation 11 

DIF Assessments 

Truist Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan in September 2020 to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed the statutory minimum of 1.35% within eight years. This plan did not include an increase in the deposit insurance assessment rate. Based on the FDIC&#8217;s recent projections, however, the FDIC determined that the DIF reserve ratio is at risk of not reaching the statutory minimum by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028 without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates. In October 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules uniformly by 2 basis points, beginning on January 1, 2023. This rule increased Truist&#8217;s regulatory premiums in 2023 by approximately $120 million. The FDIC also concurrently maintained the Designated Reserve Ratio for the DIF at 2%. 

In November 2023, the FDIC issued a final rule to implement a special assessment to recoup losses to the DIF associated with bank failures in the first half of 2023. Under the rule, the assessment base for the special assessment is equal to an insured depository institution&#8217;s estimated uninsured deposits reported as of December 31, 2022, adjusted to exclude the first $5 billion of uninsured deposits. The special assessment for Truist is $507 million, which was recognized in Q4 2023 and will be paid in eight quarterly installments beginning in 2024. The ultimate amount of expenses associated with the special assessment will also be impacted by the finalization of the losses incurred by the FDIC in the resolutions of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, which could result in additional expense. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student, and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The federal consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. 

Patriot Act 

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection, and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions&#8217; operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent, and report money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputational damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution&#8217;s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

12 Truist Financial Corporation 

BSA/AML and Sanctions 

Truist continues to be subject to examinations and ongoing monitoring to assess compliance with BSA/AML and OFAC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the financial system, consumers and financial institutions from bad actors and illicit activities by requiring financial institutions to develop and implement BSA/AML programs designed to deter and when possible detect and prevent the use of the financial system to facilitate the funding of criminal activities. In addition, Truist is also prohibited from engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, and countries under programs administered by the OFAC of the U.S. Treasury. 

Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal financial institution regulators, OFAC and the U.S. Department of Justice, among other government agencies, with respect to AML and OFAC laws and regulations. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or prohibition orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against financial institutions and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations or unsafe and unsound practices. 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cybersecurity 

Various federal and state laws and regulations contain extensive data privacy, data protection and cybersecurity provisions, and the regulatory framework for data privacy, data protection and cybersecurity is rapidly evolving. The FRB, FDIC, and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement, and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cybersecurity through guidance, examinations, and regulations. 

At the federal level, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires financial institutions to, among other things, implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires that financial institutions provide explanations to consumers on their policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such personal information except as provided in the financial institution&#8217;s policies and procedures. 

In November 2021, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC adopted a new regulation that, among other things, requires a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators as soon as possible and within 36 hours after identifying a &#8220;computer-security incident&#8221; that the banking organization believes in good faith is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or stock price, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

In addition, on July 26, 2023, the SEC adopted new cybersecurity disclosure rules for public companies that require disclosure regarding cybersecurity risk management (including the role of the Board in overseeing cybersecurity risks, management&#8217;s role and expertise in assessing and managing cybersecurity risks, and processes for assessing, identifying and managing cybersecurity risks) in annual reports. These new cybersecurity disclosure rules also require the disclosure of material cybersecurity incidents in a Form 8-K, generally within four days of determining an incident is material. Refer to Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and the &#8220;Risk Management&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to cybersecurity. 

Truist&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to rules and regulations issued by the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including with respect to data privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity. Moreover, the U.S. Congress has recently considered, and is currently considering various proposals for, more comprehensive data privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity legislation, to which Truist may be subject to if passed. 

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity such as the California Consumer Privacy Act as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act. Truist may be subject to similar laws in other states where Truist does business or in states where Truist may collect personal information of residents. In addition, laws in all 50 U.S. states generally require businesses to provide notice under certain circumstances to individuals whose personal information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. 

Moreover, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation, which was recently updated, and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by certain Truist entities. 

Truist Financial Corporation 13 

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank. 

Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and regulations and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and regulations, as well as proposed legislation, are still subject to revision or formal guidance and may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company&#8217;s understanding, which may result in further uncertainty and require Truist to incur additional costs to comply. Refer to Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for more information on the risks related to compliance with applicable privacy laws. 

Open Banking 

In October 2023, the CFPB proposed a rule under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would require certain entities, including Truist and Truist Bank, to, among other things, make available to a consumer, upon request, information in its control or possession concerning the consumer financial product or service that the consumer obtained from that entity. The proposed rule also would require data providers holding a consumer account, such as Truist Bank, to establish a developer interface satisfying certain data security specifications and other standards, through which the data provider can receive requests for, and provide, specific types of data covered by the rule in electronic, usable form to authorized third parties, including data aggregators. Under the proposed rule, data providers would be prohibited from charging consumers or third parties fees for processing these consumer data requests. The proposed rule would also place certain data security, authorization, and other obligations on third parties accessing covered data from data providers, which could include Truist and Truist Bank when acting in certain capacities. The proposed rule would also require third parties to limit their collection, use, and retention of the data received to only what is reasonably necessary to provide the consumers&#8217; requested product or service. We continue to evaluate this proposal and the potential impacts, if adopted as proposed, on the Company and Truist Bank. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Truist Bank&#8217;s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: &#8220;Outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;Satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;Needs to Improve,&#8221; or &#8220;Substantial Noncompliance.&#8221; This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with the review of any proposed acquisition or merger application. For its most recent CRA examination period, Truist received the highest possible overall rating of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; from the FDIC. 

In October 2023, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a final rule to amend their regulations implementing the CRA. The rule materially revises the current CRA framework, including the assessment areas in which a bank is evaluated to include activities associated with online and mobile banking, the tests used to evaluate the bank in its assessment areas, new methods of calculating credit for lending, investment and service activities, and additional data collection and reporting requirements. The rule is expected to result in a significant increase in the thresholds for large banks to receive &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; ratings in the future. The rule is expected to take effect on April 1, 2024, with most of the provisions becoming applicable on January 1, 2026. Reporting of the collected data will not be required until 2027. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution&#8217;s overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer&#8217;s choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for &#8220;excessive or chronic&#8221; client use and undertake &#8220;meaningful and effective&#8221; follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts, and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. In 2022, Truist launched a new approach to the checking account experience, designed to address clients&#8217; direct feedback, which includes no overdraft fees. 

14 Truist Financial Corporation 

Volcker Rule 

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading activities, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions, including for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule. 

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency, and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank is registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer and conditionally registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC&#8217;s and SEC&#8217;s regulatory regime, including trade reporting and recordkeeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. The NFA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s swap dealer. 

Truist Bank&#8217;s uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements, which have been fully phased-in across the industry as of September 2022. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 

Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist&#8217;s ability to issue new securities expeditiously. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history, and supervisory concerns. 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

Truist is subject to certain enhanced deposit insurance recordkeeping requirements adopted by the FDIC. To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor&#8217;s ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NFA, various taxing authorities, and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information on business and accounting practices from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators, and other regulatory authorities. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Human Capital 

Truist works as One Team&#8212;unified by its purpose, mission, and values&#8212;to deliver real care by meeting clients&#8217; needs, uplifting communities, empowering teammates, and promoting effective risk and controls management to drive performance. Truist recognizes that attracting the best talent, making investments in teammates, caring to better understand their backgrounds and experiences, and helping to bolster their career trajectory ultimately leads to more engaged and productive teammates, which can contribute to better business outcomes for Truist overall. Truist aims to provide teammates an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates to learn, grow, and have meaningful careers. 

Truist Financial Corporation 15 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees Truist&#8217;s compensation and benefit programs consistent with its compensation philosophy. The Committee provides oversight on Truist&#8217;s human capital strategy (including DEI, teammate engagement, and talent development) that supports attracting, developing, and retaining qualified teammates. 

Truist&#8217;s Enterprise Ethics Office manages the Truist Code of Ethics. They partner with a broad group of internal stakeholders to set standards from a comprehensive Teammate Concerns Management Program to monitor teammate conduct and facilitate the timely intake and routing of teammate concerns for review. As part of that effort, the team seeks to identify trends that may reflect on organizational culture and/or operational challenges and to develop solutions. The results of these efforts are regularly shared with Truist&#8217;s Executive-Level Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee and its Board of Directors. 

The following table presents a summary of teammates as of December 31, 2023: ##TABLE_START Table 3: Teammate Summary # of Teammates % of Population Full-Time 49,037 96.5 % Part-Time 1,795 3.5 Total 50,832 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Truist also leverages a skilled contingent workforce, which is not reflected in the table, as an important part of the Company&#8217;s overall workforce strategy. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

Inclusivity, belonging, and authenticity are at the core of Truist&#8217;s evolving culture. DEI continues to play an instrumental role across this evolution, specifically positioning Truist to uniquely embrace and thoughtfully support teammates across the Company. Truist&#8217;s longstanding commitment to DEI thoughtfully positions the organization to lead and execute inclusively. This fosters an environment where teammates, business, and our communities can thrive. Truist remains committed to embracing all dimensions of diversity across our teammate population and all levels within the organization. 

The following table presents a summary of diversity statistics as of December 31, 2022, using the category classifications on the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission&#8217;s EEO-1 report, which differ from those recognized internally by Truist. ##TABLE_START 

Table 4: Teammate Diversity (1) 

Gender Race / Ethnicity Female Male Caucasian Black/African American Hispanic or Latino Asian American Indian/Alaska Native Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Two or More Races Executive management &#38; senior leaders 27.7 % 72.3 % 82.9 % 7.5 % 3.8 % 4.3 % 0.3 % &#8212; % 1.2 % First / mid-level managers 52.8 47.2 70.3 13.5 7.8 6.0 0.4 0.1 1.9 Professionals 48.3 51.7 66.2 15.6 6.0 9.6 0.5 0.2 1.9 All others 75.7 24.3 53.8 23.9 14.3 3.9 0.8 0.3 3.0 All teammates 62.9 37.1 60.5 19.5 10.6 6.1 0.6 0.2 2.5 ##TABLE_END

(1) Source: EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2022. All others include sales workers and administrative support EEO-1 job categories. 

Talent Development and Engagement 

Truist teammates have access to extensive programs and benefits for career advancement. Teammates can partner with a certified coach to help them identify and focus on potential career paths, create clear goals, and remain accountable in achieving those goals. For teammates who qualify, Truist also provides tuition assistance so teammates can continue formal education by seeking degrees that align with career goals and/or develop needed emerging skills through our Future Skills program. Truist offers career and job transparency through a comprehensive set of resources including career discovery and career planning online services. Truist is committed to achieving a career destination culture through career mobility and pipeline strategies and programs. 

In addition to career development opportunities, Truist provides a differentiated learning experience to new and existing teammates to build the skills needed now and in the future, including role skill preparedness, upskilling for the future and access to skill building content for teammate-led learning. Truist Learning and Development also prioritizes and integrates regulatory training and concepts to mitigate risk across the organization. 

16 Truist Financial Corporation 

Truist also has a Leadership Institute, a differentiator where Truist creates positive outcomes through developmental experiences, team optimization, executive coaching, and leadership development. Truist Leadership Institute leverages a personalized, collaborative approach that is rooted in the knowledge and application of psychology and neuroscience to human behavior in business. Truist strives to succeed in maximizing the potential in every individual and instilling values and behaviors that create a strong culture of leadership. 

Similar to learning and development, listening to teammates is one of the many ways Truist demonstrates its value of Caring. In addition to Employee Engagement and Pulse surveys, Truist takes a holistic approach to teammate listening by providing multiple, always-on channels to collect feedback and gain insight. These insights often help inform the attraction and retention strategies that enable Truist to remain an employer of choice. 

Compensation and Total Rewards 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Total Rewards enable its Purpose, Mission, and Values, specifically Truist&#8217;s mission to create an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates. Truist places special emphasis on providing compensation and benefits that help foster an environment of economic security and social mobility for its teammates. 

Truist&#8217;s benefits program for qualified teammates includes a company-funded defined benefit pension plan, a 401(k) Plan, an employee stock purchase plan, Truist Momentum financial well-being education, healthcare and insurance benefits, Lifeforce physical well-being program, mental well-being support, paid time off, teammate and family resources such as access to backup child-care centers and family care resources, tuition assistance, and on-site services such as health centers and fitness centers. A detailed overview of all of the benefits Truist offers can be found on Truist&#8217;s Benefits website, Benefits.Truist.com . 

Truist provides market competitive total rewards to attract and retain talent while enabling Truist&#8217;s short- and long-term performance. Truist provides compensation and rewards that aim to achieve positive business results, are based on market and internal assessment, and are aligned with risk management principles. Truist conducts annual studies, factoring teammates&#8217; roles, levels of experience, and geography. Based on Truist&#8217;s 2023 pay equity study, the average salary of female teammates is 98% of male teammates, and the average salary of racially diverse teammates is 100% of non-racially diverse teammates. 

Website Access to Truist&#8217;s Filings with the SEC 

Truist&#8217;s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist&#8217;s SEC filings are also available through the SEC&#8217;s website at sec.gov . 

Truist may use its website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Truist routinely posts and makes accessible financial and other information, including corporate responsibility information, regarding Truist on its website. Investors should monitor Truist&#8217;s website, including the Investor Relations portion, in addition to its press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, and webcasts. 

Corporate Governance 

Information with respect to Truist&#8217;s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com . Specifically, the Company makes available on its Investor Relations website, under the heading &#8220;Governance &#38; Responsibility&#8221; (i) its code of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and teammates, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of the Company&#8217;s standing Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of its code of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the &#8220;Governance &#38; Responsibility&#8221; section of its Investor Relations website. 

Truist Financial Corporation 17 

Executive Officers ##TABLE_START Executive Officer Recent Work Experience Years of Service Age William H. Rogers, Jr. 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Chairman since March 2022. Chief Executive Officer since September 2021. President and Chief Operating Officer from December 2019 to September 2021. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from January 2012 to December 2019. 

43* 66 

Michael B. Maguire 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Chief Financial Officer since September 2022. Chief National Consumer Finance Services and Payments Officer from September 2021 to September 2022. Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive. 21* 45 Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III 

Vice Chair and Chief Operating Officer 

Chief Operating Officer since November 2023. Vice Chair since September 2021. Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. 

18* 61 Scott A. Stengel 

Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Head of Government Affairs 

Chief Legal Officer and Head of Government Affairs since December 2023. General Counsel at Ally Financial Inc. from May 2016 to December 2023. 

&#8212; 52 Kristin Lesher 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Wholesale Banking Officer 

Chief Wholesale Banking Officer since February 2024. Previously Executive Vice President and Head of Middle Market Banking at Wells Fargo from October 2021 to November 2023 and Head of East Region Commercial Banking at Wells Fargo from November 2018 to October 2021. 

&#8212; 51 Clarke R. Starnes III 

Vice Chair and Chief Risk Officer 

Vice Chair since September 2022. Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. 

41 64 Dont&#225; L. Wilson 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Consumer &#38; Small Business Banking Officer 

Chief Consumer &#38; Small Business Banking Officer since November 2023. Chief Retail &#38; Small Business Banking Officer from March 2022 to November 2023. Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer from November 2018 to March 2022. Chief Client Experience Officer from August 2016 to November 2018. 

25 47 ##TABLE_END

* Reflects combined years of service at Truist and SunTrust. 

18 Truist Financial Corporation 

