 Item 1: Legal Proceedings 

In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the Company establishes an accrued liability for litigation and threatened litigation actions and proceedings when those actions present loss contingencies, which are both probable and estimable. In actions for which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, the Company determines whether it can estimate a loss or range of possible loss. To determine whether a possible loss is estimable, the Company reviews and evaluates its material litigation on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. This review may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on substantive or dispositive motions, and settlement discussions. 

Wintrust Mortgage California PAGA Matter 

On May 24, 2022, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a California Private Attorney General Act (&#8220;PAGA&#8221;) suit, not individually, but as representative of all Wintrust Mortgage&#8217;s California hourly employees, against Wintrust Mortgage in the Superior Court of San Diego County, California. Plaintiff alleges Wintrust Mortgage failed to provide: (i) accurate sick leave accrual and pay; (ii) overtime wages; (iii) accurately itemized wage statements; (iv) meal breaks and meal premiums; (v) timely payment of earned wages; (vi) payment of all earned wages; and (vii) payment of all vested vacation hours. Wintrust Mortgage disputes the validity of Plaintiff&#8217;s claims and believes, to the extent there were defects in complying with California law governing the payment of compensation to Plaintiff, such errors would have been de minimis. Plaintiff also has an arbitration agreement with a collective and class action waiver and on January 19, 2023, Wintrust Mortgage moved to compel arbitration. The court stayed litigation pending mediation, which was held on May 13, 2024. The parties agreed to settle the dispute for an immaterial amount. A hearing for court approval of the settlement has been set for October 4, 2024. 

Wintrust Mortgage Fair Lending Matter 

On May 25, 2022, a Wintrust Mortgage customer filed a putative class action and asserted individual claims against Wintrust Mortgage and Wintrust Financial Corporation in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Plaintiff alleges that Wintrust Mortgage discriminated against black/African American borrowers and brings class claims under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Sections 1981 and 1982 under Chapter 42 of the United States Code; and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. Plaintiff also asserts individual claims under theories of promissory estoppel, fraudulent inducement, and breach of contract. On September 23, 2022, Wintrust filed a motion to dismiss the entire suit and the court granted that motion to dismiss on September 27, 2023 and gave Plaintiff until October 20, 2023 to file an amended complaint. Plaintiff timely filed an amended complaint. Wintrust moved to dismiss the amended complaint on November 21, 2023. Wintrust vigorously disputes these allegations, believing them to be legally and factually meritless, and Wintrust otherwise lacks sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Wintrust Financial ERISA Matter 

On July 29, 2022, a former Wintrust employee filed a class action in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois asserting claims under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;) against Wintrust Financial Corporation. Plaintiff alleges Wintrust breached its fiduciary duty in the selection of BlackRock Target Date funds for inclusion in its 401(k) plan, that Wintrust failed to monitor the performance of those funds, and in the alternative, Wintrust should be liable for breach of trust. Plaintiff&#8217;s sole basis for the allegations is that BlackRock Target Date funds allegedly performed more poorly than two comparable funds over a three-year period. Wintrust is one of several public companies that were sued on identical grounds within the same week by the same plaintiff&#8217;s law firm. On November 8, 2022, Wintrust filed a motion to dismiss the entire complaint. On July 14, 2023, the District Court granted Wintrust&#8217;s motion to dismiss and gave Plaintiff until August 2, 2023 to file an amended complaint. Plaintiff timely filed an amended complaint which Wintrust moved to dismiss on September 14, 2023. We believe plaintiff&#8217;s allegations continue to be legally and factually meritless and otherwise lack sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Other Matters 

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Based on information currently available and upon consultation with counsel, management believes that the eventual outcome of any pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings described above, including our ordinary course litigation, will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations or financial condition for a particular period. 

